JCD 0-3
Endometrioid NOS
Page 1 of 5
WID:F1D23669-8247-4727-8D38-BD444C16FAAB
8380/3
be 11/23/16
TCGA-A5-A0GI-01A-PR
Redacted
17:56
Site indometrium (54.1
PATH #
A/S:
Rec:
Col:
Location:
Pathologist
Assistant:
Attending MD:
Ordering MD:
Copies To:
DIAGNOSIS:
1. UTERUS, FALLOPIAN TUBES AND OVARIES, TOTAL ABDOMINAL
HYSTERECTOMY AND BILATERAL SALPINGO-OOPHORECTOMY
-
Primary uterine adenocarcinoma, endometrioid type with
squamous changes, FIGO grade II, nuclear 2 (see comment)
-
Tumor extensively involves the endometrium of the
posterior fundus, posterior uterine corpus, and
posterior lower uterine segment
-
Exophytic portions of the tumor are polypoid in some
areas and show focal villoglandular features
-
Surface of tumor is focally eroded in secondary
inflammatory changes, hemorrhages, and necrosis are
present
-
Myometrial invasion by carcinoma is superficial and
involves less than 20% of the uterine wall thickness
-
No unequivocal lymphatic or vascular invasion by tumor
is evident; however, retraction artifacts and
invasion in some areas
inflammatory changes hamper evaluation for lymphovascular
-
No extension of tumor into cervix
- Vaginal cuff is free of tumor
- - No involvement of parametrial soft tissues by tumor
No evidence of metastatic carcinoma involving ovaries
or fallopian tubes
-
Non-neoplastic endometrium is inactive/weakly
proliferative
- Six uterine leiomyomas
-
Cervix with microscopic benign inflamed endocervical
polyps, acute and chronic inflammation, reserve cell
hyperplasia, focal microglandular endocervical
hyperplasia, squamous metaplasia, reactive epithelial
changes, and endocervical nabothian cysts
-
Scant vaginal cuff mucosa with chronic inflammation and
parakeratosis of squamous epithelium
- Chronic inflammation and foreign body giant cell
reaction, right parametrium
(cc
poratory Medicine
-
Left fallopian tube with rocal mild epithelial
Page: 2
hyperplasia without significant atypia
- Left ovary with senescent changes, a cystic epithelial
inclusion, benign "micropapillary" surface epithelial and
stromal proliferations, and serosal adhesions
-
-
Right fallopian tube with minimal epithelial atypia
Right ovary with senescent changes, multiple cystic
epithelial inclusions, focal surface papillary
adenofibromatous changes, benign "micropapillary" surface
Page 2 of 5
epithelial and stromal proliferations, and numerous
serosal adhesions, some of which show associated
hemorrhage, chronic inflammation, foreign body giant cell
reactions, and/or reactive mesothelial changes with
tiny mesothelial inclusions (some microcytic)
2. LYMPH NODE, RIGHT PARA-AORTIC, EXCISION:
-
One reactive lymph node
- No evidence of metastatic carcinoma (0/1)
3. LYMPH NODES, RIGHT PELVIC AND COMMON [ILIAC], EXCISION:
- TWO reactive lymph nodes
- No evidence of metastatic carcinoma (0/2)
4. LYMPH NODES, LEFT PELVIC, EXCISION:
- Three reactive lymph nodes
- No evidence of metastatic carcinoma (0/3)
5. LYMPH NODE, LEFT PELVIC, EXCISION:
- One reactive lymph node
- No evidence of metastatic carcinoma (0/1)
6. [SOFT TISSUE], LEFT PERIAORTIC, EXCISION:
- Soft tissues without evidence of metastatic carcinoma
-
No lymph node identified
7. SOFT TISSUE, RIGHT PELVIC, BIOPSY:
- No evidence of metastatic carcinoma
8. SOFT TISSUE, LEFT PELVIC, BIOPSY:
-
Perivascular margination of leukocytes and
thermal/cautery artifact
- No evidence of metastatic carcinoma
9-11. OMENTUM, "#1", , "#2", "#3":
- Chronic inflammation, adhesions, and reactive
mesothelial proliferation
- No evidence of metastatic carcinoma
COMMENT: Findings and additional routinely stained sections have
been incorporated in the diagnosis. Case to be discussed at
gynecologic concology-pathology conference on
HISTORY: Uterine carcinoma
MICROSCOPIC: See Diagnosis.
GROSS:
boratory Medicine
Page: 3
1:
UTERUS CERVIX BILATERAL TUBES
Labeled with the patient's name, designated "uterus, cervix and
bilateral tubes", received fresh in the Operating Room for gross
consultation, and subsequently fixed in formalin, is a 140 gram
total hysterectomy and bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy specimen.
The uterus was previously incised on both sides at the time of
intraoperative consultation. The uterus is slightly distorted in
shape. The uterus is about 8.5 cm from the fundus to the
ectocervix, 5.5 cm from cornu to cornu, and up to 4.2 cm from the
anterior surface to the posterior surface, The uterine serosa is
red-tan and smooth. The cervix is about 3.0 cm in long and up to
3.6 cm in maximum diameter in the ectocervical region. Attached to
the ectocervix, there is a short (less than 0.3 cm long) cuff of
grossly unremarkable pink-tan vaginal mucosa. The mucosa lining the
ectocervix is tan-pink, focally wrinkled, but otherwise smooth. The
external cervical os is patent and about 0.3 cm in diameter. The
cervical transformation zone is distinct. The endocervical canal is
Page 3 of 5
about 2.5 cm long. Within the endocervical canal, there is
relatively abundant mucoid material that is blood-tinged. The
endocervical mucosa is tan and rugose. Cut sections of the cervix
reveal several tiny to small mucus-filled cysts, ranging from about
0.1 to 0.3 cm in diameter. The cervix appears grossly free of
tumor. in The endometrial cavity is about 5.5 cm long and up to 3.2 cm
width. Within the posterior uterus, there is a large friable,
polypoid to papillated tan-red tumor mass that extends from the
posterior fundus to the posterior lower uterine segment. The tumor
measures about 5.5 X 3.0 cm in surface area. The surface of the
tumor is focally hemorrhagic and focally necrotic. Cut sections
reveal a maximum tumor thickness of about 0.8 cm. Cut sections of
the posterior uterus reveal superficial myometrial invasion involving
less than 20% of the uterine wall thickness. The endometrium of the
posterior uterus (from the fundus to the lower uterine segment) is
tan to red-tan, smooth, and has a maximum thickness of less than 0.1
cm. No endometrial tumor is seen in the anterior uterus. Cut
sections of the uterus also reveal six circumscribed leiomyomas, one
of which is submucosal, two of which are subserosal, and the
remainder of which are intramural. The leiomyomas are each well
circumscribed and range from about 0.2 to 1.5 cm in maximum
dimensions. Each of the leiomyomas is composed of firm solid tan-
white whorled tissue with grossly evident areas of hemorrhage or
necrosis. The muscular uterine wall has a maximum thickness of about
2.0 cm. The uninvolved myometrium is tan and firm. The left
fallopian tube has fimbria at one end, is 5.4 cm long, up to 0.5 cm
in diameter, has a smooth, pink-tan serosal surface, a pinpoint
patent lumen, and appears grossly free of tumor. The left ovary is
atrophic, about 1.8 X 1.5 X 0.7 cm and has a cerebriform, tan-yellow
serosal surface with a few tiny adhesions. Cut surfaces of the left
ovary reveal a peripheral rim of yellow-tan cortical stroma and
multiple corpora albicantia, but no gross evidence of tumor. The
white to fallopian tube has fimbria at one end, is about 5.2 cm long, up
0.4 cm in diameter, has a smooth, tan-pink serosal surface, and
of pinpoint patent lumen. The right fallopian tube appears grossly free a
has tumor. The right ovary is atrophic, about 2.0 X 1.3 X 0.9 cm, and
a cerebriform to undulated, yellow-tan serosal surface with
multiple adhesions. Cut surfaces of the right ovary reveal a
tumor. cystic spaces, several corpora albicantia, and no gross evidence of
peripheral rim of yellow-tan cortical stroma, several minute to tiny
Laboratory Medicine
Representative sections.
Page: 4
A. TWO subserosal leiomyomas - 2
B. One submucosal leiomyoma and two intramural leiomyomas - 3
C. Anterior uterine corpus with small leiomyoma - 1
D. Anterior lower uterine segment - 1
E. Anterior cervix and vaginal cuff - 1
F. Posterior fundus with tumor - 1
G. Posterior uterine corpus with tumor - 1
H. Posterior uterine corpus with tumor - 1
I. Posterior lower uterine segment with tumor -
J. Posterior cervix and vaginal cuff - 1
1
K. Left parametrial tissues - 1
L. Right parametrial tissues - 1
M. Left fallopian tube and ovary - 3
N. Right fallopian tube and ovary - 3
2: RIGHT PERIAORTIC LYMPH NODE
node", Labeled with the patient's name, designated "right periaortic
and received in formalin is a 2.6 X 0.8 X 0.2 cm lymph of
soft yellow fatty tissue within which there is embedded a single aggregate semi-
Entirely submitted.
tan lymph node that measures about 2.2 cm in maximum dimension.
Page 4 of 5
O. One lymph node and fat - 1
3: RIGHT COMMON AND PELVIC LYMPH NODE
Labeled with the patient's name, designated "right common and pelvic
lymph node", and received in formalin are two aggregates of yellow
fatty tissue, within each of which are embedded a single lymph node.
The larger aggregate measures about 2.0 cm in maximum dimension and
contains a 1.5 cm diameter lymph node. The smaller aggregate
measures about 1.7 cm in maximum dimension and contains a 1.3 cm
diameter semi-soft tan lymph node.
Entirely submitted.
P. Smaller lymph node bisected - 2
Q. Larger lymph node bisected - 2
4 : LEFT PELVIC
Labeled with the patient's name, designated "left pelvic", and
received in formalin is a 3.0 X 1.5 X 0.5 cm aggregate of yellow
fatty tissue within which there are embedded three semisoft, tan
yellow-tan lymph nodes. The lymph nodes measure about 0.3, 1.7 and to
2.4 cm in maximum dimension.
Entirely submitted.
R. Three lymph nodes and fat - 3
5 : LEFT COMMON ILIAC LYMPH NODE
node", and received in formalin is a 1.2 X 0.3 X 0.2 cm ovoid, semi-
Labeled with the patient's name, designated "left common iliac lymph
soft, tan lymph node with scant attached fat.
Entirely submitted.
S. One lymph node and perinodal fat - 1
6: LEFT PERIAORTIC
Labeled with the patient's name, designated "left periaortic", and
received in formalin is a 1.4 X 0.5 X 0.1 cm irregularly shaped
identified. fragment of tan-yellow fibroadipose tissue. No lymph node is
Entirely submitted.
Laboratory Medicine
T. Fibroadipose tissue - 1
Page: 5
7: RIGHT PELVIC BIOPSY
and Labeled with the patient's name, designated "right pelvic biopsy",
tan, fibromembranous tissue.
received in formalin is a 1.5 x 0.3 X 0.1 cm fragment of soft,
Entirely submitted.
U. Soft tissue - 1
8: LEFT PELVIC BIOPSY
and Labeled with the patient's name, designated "left pelvic biopsy",
fragment of tan-yellow fibroadipose tissue.
received in formalin is a 1.3 X 0.6 X 0.1 cm irregularly shaped
Entirely submitted.
V. Fibroadipose tissue - 1
9:
OMENTUM 1
Labeled with the patient's name, designated "omentum #1", and
yellow lobulated omental fat that appears grossly free of tumor.
received in formalin is an 8.3 X 3.6 X 1.0 cm portion of soft, tan,
Representative sections.
W. Omentum - 2
10: OMENTUM 2
Labeled with the patient's name, designated "omentum #2", and
received in formalin is a 5.8 X 4.3 X 1.3 cm portion of soft, tan-
yellow, lobulated omental fat that appears grossly free of tumor.
Page 5 of 5
Representative sections.
X. 2
11: OMENTUM 3
Labeled with the patient's name, designated "omentum #3", and
received in formalin is a 5.2 X 3.6 X 0.8 cm portion of soft,
yellow-tan, - lobulated omental fat that appears grossly free of tumor.
Representative sections.
Y. 2
Gross dictated by:
OPERATIVE CALL
OPERATIVE CONSULT (GROSS) :
1. Uterus, tube and ovaries:
- Exophytic endometrial tumor (posterior, right wall)
- Leiomyomas
- Atrophic ovaries
- Portion of uterine tumor and left ovary taken for
Dr.
Special Studies: Additional H&Es (Cx2, DX1, Hx2, Nx1, Rx2)
(continued on next page) :
& Laboratory Medicine
Page: 6
M.D.
Pathologist
If this report includes immunohistochemical test results, please
note the following:
Numerous immunohistochemical tests were developed and their
performance characteristics determined by
Those
immunohistochemical tests have not been cleared or approved by the
U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) , and FDA approval is not
required.
I,
M.D. , the pathologist of record, have
personally examined the specimen, interpreted the
results, reviewed this report and signed it electronically.
Date Finalled:
revenue
per
TSS.
m
in
Criteria
Yes
No
Diagnosis Discrepancy
'rimary Tumor Site Discrepancy
IPAA Discrepancy
'rior Malignancy History
Dual/Synchronous Prigary Noted
Case is (circle):
QUALIFIED / DISQUALIZED
Reviewer Initials
ate Reviewed:
