Sex: Female
D.O.B.
MRN #
Ref Phy:
Collected
Received:
Reported:
SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT
DIAGNOSIS
DIAGNOSIS:
A. Uterine contents, removal:
High-grade adenocarcinoma with extensive necrosis * see comment.
B. Left ovary and fallopian tube, salpingo-oophorectomy:
Left ovary
Benign ovary with serosal fibrous adhesions.
No neoplastic process is identified.
Left fallopian tube -
Benign fallopian tube with no neoplasm identified.
C. Right ovary and fallopian tube, salpingo-oophorectomy:
Right ovary -
Benign ovary with serosal fibrous adhesions
No neoplasm identified.
Right fallopian tube -
Acute salpingitis.
D. Uterus, hysterectomy:
High-grade endometrial adenocarcinoma
Histologic type: mixed endometrioid adenocarcinoma and papillary serous carcinoma - see comment.
Histologic grade: Grade 3 (high grade).
Size: At least 8 cm in greatest dimension with additional material in specimens A and F.
Myometrial invasion: Tumor invades less than one-half the thickness of the myometrium.
Greatest depth of invasion is 3 mm into an area of myometrium that is 9 mm thick.
Foci of lymphovascular space invasion present.
Surgical margin: Lesion not identified at lower uterine segment margin.
AJCC cancer staging of the endometrium: pT1aN0
E. Cervix, excision:
Ulceration with marked acute and chronic inflammation.
ICD-0-3
No neoplasm identified.
8380/3
F. Uterine contents, removal:
adenocarcenome, indometrioid and
High-grade adenocarcinoma with extensive necrosis.
papillary serons 846013 -Code to highest 8464/3
G. Lymph nodes, left common lower aortic, excision:
No neoplasm identified in two lymph nodes.
Sites Endometrium C54.1
he 10/25/11
H. Lymph nodes, left external iliac, excision:
No neoplasm identified in two lymph nodes.
I. Lymph nodes, left obturator, excision:
No neoplasm identified in two lymph nodes.
J. Lymph nodes, right lower aortic, excision:
No neoplasm identified in two lymph nodes.
K. Lymph nodes, right external iliac, excision:
Yes
No
Criteria
No neoplasm identified in three lymph nodes.
Diagnosis Discrepancy
Primary Tumor Site Discrepancy
HIPAA Discrepancy
L Lymph nodes, right external iliac, excision:
Prior Malignancy History
No neoplasm identified in two lymph nodes.
Dual/Synchronous Primar Noted
Case is (circle):
QUALIFIED
/ DISQUALITIO
Review I
cmt
Date Reviewed:
M. Lymph nodes, right obturator, excision:
No neoplasm identified in four lymph nodes.
be 10/25/111
10/25/11
JUID: :3D42566F-9282-4530-BF6A-624DA6E97989
TCGA-AJ-A3BG-01A-PR
Redacted
N. Omentum, omentectomy:
No neoplasm identified.
Electronic Signature:
COMMENTS:
There is a high grade adenocarcinoma involving the uterus which has predominantly and endometrioid pattern There are areas that have an appearance
of papillary carcinoma, and these foci stain positively for p53. There also are solid sheets of highly atypical neoplastic cells. There is an area lymph
vascular space invasion.
Selected slides reviewed by
CLINICAL HISTORY:
Preoperative Diagnosis: Pelvic mass.
Postoperative Diagnosis:
Symptoms/Radiologic Findings:
SPECIMENS:
A. Uterine contents FS.
B. Left tube and ovary.
C. Right tube and ovary.
D. Uterus.
E. Cervix.
F. Uterine contents.
G. Left common lower aortic.
H. Left external iliac.
I. Left obturator
J. Right lower aortic and common lymph node.
K. Right external iliac suspicious node.
L. Right external iliac.
M. Right obturator.
N. Omentum.
GROSS DESCRIPTION:
A. First container A is labeled with the patient's name
#1. The specimen consists of an aggregate of yellow-gray shaggy tissue
fragments measuring in aggregate by 16.5 X 15.4 cm. weighing 422 grams. A representative section from the specimen was examined at the time of
surgery. Received with the specimen is a single yellow cassette labeled Representative sections are submitted in cassettes
as
follows: FS in block 1; additional sections from the specimen in blocks 2-9.
B. Second container B labeled
2/ovary. The specimen consists of an ovary with an attached fallopian tube. The ovary measures 3.5
x 0.5 x 0.5 cm. The surface is yellow to gray-tan. The cut surface is gray-tan and reveals a corpus albican up to 0.6 cm. There is no lesions grossly
identified. The attached fallopian tube is 5.5 cm. in length and 0.5 cm. in diameter. The surface is gray to brown-tan Sectioning there is no mature
lesions identified. The fallopian tube appears grossly unremarkable. Representative sections are submitted in cassette labeled
as
follows: ovary in total in blocks 1 and 2; representative fallopian tube in block 3.
C. Third container C is labeled with the patient's name
right tube/ovary and consists of an ovary with attached fallopian tube. The
ovary measures 2.2 x 1.5 x 0.5 cm. The surface is yellow to gray-tan. Sectioning there is corpus albicans identified measuring up to 0.5 cm. There is
lesions grossly identified. The fallopian tube measures 6 cm. in length and 0.5 cm. in diameter. The surface is gray to brown-tan. On sectioning there is
no mature lesions identified within the lumen. The fallopian tube appears grossly unremarkable. Representative sections are submitted in cassettes
labeled
as follows: ovary in total in blocks 1-2; representative fallopian tube in block 3.
D. Fourth container D is labeled with the patient's
uterus. The specimen consists of a partially bisected supracervical hysterectomy
specimen measuring 13 x 7 x 5.5 cm. and weighs 193 grams. The serosal surface of the uterus is gray to brown-tan with slight hemorrhage and
adhesions The serosal surface has been inked Endometrial cavity measures 10 x 6.5 cm. and is lined by a brown-tan shaggy friable mass involving
the entire uterine cavity that measures 8 x 5.5 cm. and comes within 2 cm. of the resected margin at the lower uterine segment. The mass extends into
the underlying myometrium approximately 0.4 cm. into a 0.8 cm. myometrium. The myometrium is gray-tan trabecular. There is no lesions grossly
identified. Received with the specimen are two cassettes, one green, one yellow labeled
1 with the green additionally labeled - 17 and the
blue additionally black 18. Representative sections are submitted in cassettes labeled
IS follows: full thickness sections from the mass
in
blocks 1 through 6; resected margin at the area of the uterine segment bin clock 7; lett parametrium in block 8; right parametrium in block 9.
E. The fifth container E is labeled the patient's name
The specimen consists of cervical tissue that measures 2.2 cm. in length
and 3 cm. in diameter and has a 2 cm. round patent os. The ectocervical mucosa is gray-tan to brown-tan with hemorrhage. Sectioning there is no
lesions grossly identified. Representative sections are submitted in four cassettes labeled
F. The sixth container F is labeled the patient's name
uterine contents. The specimen consists of an aggregate of gray to red-tan
shaggy soft tissue fragments measuring in aggregate 15x2x45 cm. and weighs 312 grams. Representative sections are submitted in two cassettes
labeled
G. The seventh container G is labeled the patient's name
left common aortic. The specimen consists of a portion of fibroadipose
tissue measuring 3 X 2 x 1 cm. Sectioning reveals three probable lymph nodes that measure from 0.2 to 0.6 cm. The lymph nodes are entirely
submitted in cassettes labeled
as follows: two probable nodes in block 1; one probable node in block 2.
H. The eighth container H is labeled the patient's name
1, left external iliac. The specimen consists of a portion of fibroadipose tissue
measuring 5 x 4.5 x 1.2 cm. Sectioning reveals two probable lymph nodes that measure from 0.6 to 0.9 cm. The lymph nodes are entirely submitted in
cassettes labeled
as follows: one probable node block 1; one probable node bisected in block 2.
1. The ninth container / is labeled with the patient's name
left obturator. The specimen consists of a portion of fibroadipose tissue 4.5 x
4 X 1 cm. Sectioning reveals two probable lymph nodes that measure 1.1 and 1.5 cm. in greatest dimension. The lymph nodes are entirely submitted in
cassettes labelec
as follows: one probable node bisected in block 1; one probable node bisected in block 2.
J. The tenth container J is labeled
he specimen consists of a portion of fibroadipose tissue measuring 4.5 x 1.5 x 1 cm. Sectioning
reveals two probable lymph nodes that measures 0.9 and 1.5 cm. in greatest dimension. The lymph nodes are entirely submitted in three cassettes
labeled
is follows: one probable node bisected in block 1; one probable node bisected in blocks 2-3.
K. The eleventh container K is labeled with the patient's name
#11. The specimen consists of a portion of fibroadipose tissue
measuring x 2.5 x 0.5 cm. Sectioning reveals three probable lymph nodes that measure from 0.5 to 1.5 cm. The lymph nodes are entirely submitted
in cassettes labeled as
as follows: one probable node bisected in block 1; two probable nodes in block 2.
L. The twelfth container L is labeled
#12 and consists of a portion of fibroadipose tissue. 5 X 3 c 0.5 cm. Sectioning reveals two
probable lymph nodes that measure U./ and 1.8 cm. in greatest dimension. The lymph nodes are entirely submitted in cassettes labeled
as follows: one probable lymph node bisected in block 1; one probable lymph node bisected in blocks 2 and 3.
M. The thirteenth container M is labeled
and consists of a portion of fibroadipose tissue measuring 6x4x1 cm. Sectioning reveals
four probable lymph nodes that measure from 0.5 to 1.5 cm. The lymph nodes are entirely submitted in cassettes
as follows: two
probable nodes in block 1; one probable node bisected in blocks 2 and 3; one probable lymph node bisected in block 4.
N. The fourteenth container N is labeled
The specimen consists of a portion of yellow-tan lobular fibroadipose omentum tissue
measuring cm. On sectioning there no nodules grossly identified. Representative sections are submitted in four cassettes labeled
INTRA-OPERATIVE CONSULTATION:
A. FROZEN SECTION DIAGNOSIS: Adenocarcinoma, favor high-grade per D
