ICD-0-3
adenocancinoma, Endometrioid NOS
838013
low
Username:
UUID:44561792-F2F8-42F7-B697-5D7752F8430E
TCGA-A5-A0GD-01A-PR
***
Redacted
11/22/1
2
Site indirectrum C54.1
SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT
PATH #:
walt
A/S:
Soc. Sec. No. :
Rec:
Location:
Col:
Pathologist:
Assistant:
Attending MD:
Ordering MD:
Copies To:
DIAGNOSIS:
1. AND UTERUS, FALLOPIAN TUBES AND OVARIES, TOTAL ABDOMINAL HYSTERECTOMY
- BILATERAL SALPINGO-0OPHORECTOMY (#1, 3 AND #4 SPECIMENS) :
Endometrial adenocarcinoma, endometrioid type, FIGO grade
II/III, endometrium
-Common endometrioid type adenocarcinoma
-Nuclear grade 3 and grade 2
-Architectural grade 1
-
Polypoid 60% of - exophytic growth mostly, involving approximately
the endometrium
-No evidence of endocervical involvement
-Status post endometrial biopsy
- No parametrial involvement or extension
Very adenocarcinoma superficial myometrial invasion by the endometrial
Involvement of the endometrial-myometrial junction and
extension into the very adjacent superficial myometrium
1/4 (estimated myometrial invasion less than 20% or less than
pT1b, No pathologic stage
of total myometrial thickness in multiple sections)
Endometrial and hyperplasia, complex and simple type with atypia,
Endocervical polyp
complex hyperplasia without atypia, flat endometrium
-Small leiomyoma, corpus uteri
-Mild tubal epithelial hyperplasia, fallopian tubes
-Cortical stromal hyperplasia, mild, ovaries
Focal in the aggregates of chronic inflammatory cells and macrophages
left tubal wall, non-specific
-Old mural scar, anterior wall of the cervix, consistent with old
cesarean section scar, cervix
-Atypical mullerianosis, subserosal, right fallopian tube
2.
RIGHT -No PELVIC LYMPH NODES, LYMPHADENECTOMY (#2 SPECIMEN)
metastatic neoplasm, fibrosis, three total lymph nodes :
3. RIGHT PERIAORTIC LYMPH NODES, LYMPHADENECTOMY (#5 SPECIMEN) :
-No metastatic neoplasm, fatty change and fibrosis, two total
lymph nodes
4. LEFT PERIAORTIC LYMPH NODES, LYMPHADENECTOMY (#6 SPECIMEN)
Fatty node change and fibrosis, no metastatic neoplasm, one lymph
5. LEFT PELVIC LYMPH NODES, LYMPHADENECTOMY (#7 SPECIMEN)
-No metastatic neoplasm, six total lymph nodes
6. SIGMOID EPIPLOICA, LOCAL RESECTION (#8 SPECIMEN) :
-Focal fat necrosis with secondary cystification and
granulomatous reaction with pigment laden macrophages and
fibrosis
7. OMENTUM, OMENTECTOMY (DESIGNATED AS #1 AND #2) (#9 AND #10
SPECIMENS):
-No metastatic neoplasm, focal mesothelial hyperplasia and focal
surface fibrosis with surface microadhesions
COMMENT: Atypical endometrioid mullerianosis, subserosal, and
Walthard rests in the right fallopian tube. Atrophy in the squamous
epithelium of the cervix with focal mild squamous atypia of
undetermined significance as well as chronic cervicitis and
microglandular hyperplasia in the cervix. The endometrial
adenocarcinoma is endometrioid type adenocarcinoma of common type
with a low architectural grade (grade I) but of high nuclear grade
(grade 3 and grade 2 nuclear grade). Focal minimal squamous
differentiation and oxyphilic cellular changes in the endometrial
adenocarcinoma which often invaginates into the superficial
myometrium as irregular nests and islands (pseudoinvasion) and
effaces the endometrial-myometria junction in multiple areas
extending as large epithelial islands with pushing borders into the
very adjacent myometrium. The exact measurement of the maximum
depth of invasion of the carcinoma cannot be accurately evaluated or
estimated due to the irregular endometrial growth border but the
than maximum depth of invasion is considered to be very superficial (less
20% or 1/4 of the myometrial total thickness, questionable
0.5 to 1 mm maximum depth out of 10 to 15 mm total myometrial
thickness). Focal adenocarcinoma is also present in the
flat endometrium intermixed with the endometrial hyperplasia.
Report left on Dr.
voice mail on
HISTORY: Endometrial carcinoma
MICROSCOPIC:
See Diagnosis.
GROSS:
1:
UTERUS, FALLOPIAN TUBES AND OVARIES
Labeled "uterus, fallopian tubes and ovaries", received fresh in the
Operating Room and subsequently fixed in formalin, is a specimen
consisting of an entire uterus with attached adnexae weighing 66.9
grams. The uterus measures 7.5 cm superior to inferior, 3.5 cm
anterior to posterior, and 3.5 cm cornu to cornu. The cervix
measures 2.5 X 2.0 cm and is covered by white smooth mucosa. Focal
areas of hemorrhage are present. The cervical os measures 0.5 X 0.2
cm and is fishmouth shaped in contour. A 2.7 in circumference by
1.0 cm to 0.7 cm in length posterior vaginal cuff is identified as
well as a 2.0 in circumference by 0.1 to 0.2 cm in length of
2
anterior vaginal cuff is identified. The left lateral vaginal cuff
ranges from 1.5 cm in length and 0.2 cm to 0.5 cm in thickness and
there is no vaginal cuff present in the right side. The vaginal cuff
margin is inked black. The right parametrium measures 2.5 X 1.0 X
1.0 cm and the left 2.5 X 2.0. The serosal surface of the uterus
is tan with no adhesions identified. The right fallopian tube
measures 6.5 X 0.5 cm and is covered by a smooth tan serosa. Cross
sectioning of the tube is unremarkable for any gross lesions and
shows a pinpoint lumen. The right ovary measures 2.5 X 1.5 X 0.7
cm. The external surface of the ovary is tan-yellow and bosselated.
Cross sectioning of the ovary is unremarkable for any gross
lesions. It has variable thickness cortex and solid white fibrous
medulla. The left fallopian tube measures 5.5 X 0.5 cm and is
covered by a smooth tan serosa. Cross sectioning of the tube is
unremarkable for any gross lesions. The left ovary measures 2.5 X
1.5 X 1.0 cm. The external surface is tan-yellow and bosselated.
Cross sectioning is unremarkable for any gross lesions. The cortex
is relatively thin of variable thickness without gross lesions. The
medulla is white and fibrosed. Both fallopian tubes are complete
with fimbriated ends and both adnexae are ligated. The uterus is
opened laterally. In the upper endocervix is a 1.5 X 0.7 X 0.5 cm
polyp near the left lateral wall. The endocervix is covered by
corrugated tan mucosa and is unremarkable for any other gross
lesions. An anterior wall mural scar is suspected in the cervix.
The endometrial cavity measures 4.5 X 4.5 cm and is filled
partly by tan polypoid with broad base tumor mostly located in the
left lateral posterior and anterior walls, which measures 4.0 X 3.0
cm in surface. This diffusely polypoid endometrial tumor has a tan
homogeneous cut surface and minimally papillary outer surface. It
occupies 50-60% of the endometrial lining and extends just above the
lower uterine segment and close to the fundus. On sectioning it
seems to infiltrate less than 30% of the myometrium (superficial
invasion). The rest of the endometrium is coarsely granular and
thickened. The maximum thickness of the myometrium measures 1.5 cm.
No gross lesions are identified. Representative sections are
submitted.
S.
Right parametrium - Multiple
T.
Left parametrium - Multiple
U.
Anterior
V.
Posterior
) Cervix
W.
Right
)
X.
Left including polyp )
Y,Z.
Tumor at left lateral wall - 1 each
AA-DD. Tumor at left lateral wall - 1 each
EE-GG, Tumor at right lateral wall - 1 each
HH. Lower uterine segment and upper endocervix - 1
II.
Right ovary and distal fallopian tube - 3
JJ.
Right proximal fallopian tube - 2
KK.
Left ovary and distal fallopian tube - 2
LL.
Left proximal fallopian tube - 2
2: RIGHT PELVIC LYMPH NODE
Labeled "right pelvic lymph node" and received in formalin is a 2.5 X
2.5 X 1.0 cm aggregate of soft tan-yellow fatty tissue. Various
lymph nodes ranging from 0.1 to 0.5 cm in diameter are identified.
A,B. All embedded - Multiple
3: FROZEN SECTION OF NO. 1
Labeled "FS of #1" and received in formalin are three fragments of
soft tan tissue measuring 0.8 X 0.7 x 0.2 cm, 1.2 X 0.8 X 0.2
cm, and 1 .3 X 0.9 X 0.2 cm.
C. All embedded - 3
4: PART OF NO. 1 IN BOUINS
Labeled"part of #1 in Bouin's (endometrium)" and received in Bouin's
are part of specimen #1 are three fragments of soft tan tissue
measuring 0.3 X 0.2 X 0.2 cm, 0.5 X 0.2 X 0.1 cm, and 1.0 X 0.7 X 0.5
cm.
D. All embedded - 3
5: RIGHT PERIAORTIC LYMPH NODE
Labeled "right periaortic lymph node" and received in formalin is a
4.0 X 2.5 x 1.5 cm portion of soft tan-yellow fatty tissue. Several
lymph nodes are palpated and range from 0.1 to 0.4 cm in diameter.
The specimen is all embedded.
E. All embedded - Multiple
6: LEFT PERIAORTIC LYMPH NODE
Labeled "left periaortic lymph node" and received in formalin is a
4.5 x 1.5 X 1.0 cm portion of soft tan-yellow fatty tissue. A 2.5 x
1.5 X 0.5 cm lymph node is palpated. The lymph node is all embedded.
F. 1)
) One lymph node
G. 1)
7: LEFT PELVIC LYMPH NODE
Labeled "left pelvic lymph node" and received in formalin is a 2.5 x
2.5 x 1.0 cm portion of soft tan-yellow fatty tissue. Several lymph
nodes ranging from 0.3 cm in diameter to 1.0 X 0.5 X 0.5 cm are
palpated.
H,I. All embedded - Multiple
8: SIGMOID EPIPLOICA
Labeled "sigmoid epiploica" and received in formalin is a 1.7 X 1.0 X
0.9 cm portion of soft tan-yellow fatty tissue.
J. All embedded - 2
9: OMENTUM NO.2
Labeled "omentum #2" and received in formalin is a 13.5 X 7.5 X 1.0
cm portion of soft tan-yellow lobulated fatty tissue. Cross
sectioning of the specimen is unremarkable for any gross lesions.
K-N. Representative sections - 2 each
10: OMENTUM NO. 1
Labeled "omentum #1" and received in formalin is a 14.5 X 6.5 X 1.0
cm portion of soft tan-yellow fatty lobulated tissue. Cross
sectioning of the specimen is unremarkable for any gross lesions.
O-R. Representative sections - 2 each
ADDITIONAL SECTIONS:
MM. 2)
NN. 2)
00. 1) Endomyometrium with tumor
PP. 1)
QQ. 2)
RR. Endometrium and lower uterine segment - 2
SS. Endomyometrium with tumor - 1
TT. Endomyometrium with tumor -
1
Gross dictated by
OPERATIVE CONSULT (GROSS) :
Endometrial polypoid neoplasm consistent with carcinoma, invasive
(superficial myometrial invasion estimated <1/3 of wall), corpus
uteri
Possible lower uterine extension
Short vaginal cuff right lateral. Endocervical polyp
(ID)
OPERATIVE CONSULT (FROZEN) :
Endometrial adenocarcinoma, endometrioid common type, at least
grade II
(ID)
Special Studies: Frozen Section; Photo, Deeper sections
See Also:
DATE:
M.D.
Pathologist
I,
,
M.D., , the pathologist of record, have
personally examined the specimen, interpreted the
results, reviewed this report and signed it electronically.
Date Finalled:
Calteria
Yes
No
Diagnosis Discome
Primary Tumor Site Discrepancy
iliPAiA Discrepancy
Prior Malignary History
Dual Sunchronous Primary Npted
Case is (circle):
ONALIFIED
Reviewer Initials
"reviewed:
