163-0-3
Endometround NOS
838013
be
site : indometruison C54.1
11/23/10
4AAFF034-4503-4F4F-A283-2628A641D03A
TCGA-A5-A0GM-01A-PR
Redacted
-
Ordering M.D.:
Copies To:
Age/Sex
Assistant.
Location
Date of Procedu
Date Received:
;
SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT
SPECIMEN(S) SUBMITTED: A. LEFT FALLOPIAN TUBE & OVARY, B. RIGHT TUBE & OVARY, C. UTERUS+ CERVIX, D. RIGHT
COMMON ILIAC LYMPH NODE, E. RIGHT PELVIC LYMPH NODE, F. LEFT COMMON ILIAC LYMPH NODE, G. LEFT PELVIC
LYMPH NODE, H. OMENTUM NO 1, I. OMENTUM NO 2, J. OMENTUM NO 3
DIAGNOSIS:
A. FALLOPIAN TUBE AND OVARY, LEFT, SALPINGO-OOPHORECTOMY:
-
Ovary with hemorrhagic cystic corpus luteum and serosal adhesions with associated
reactive mesothelial proliferation
-
Fallopian tube without pathologic changes
-
No evidence of metastatic carcinoma
B. FALLOPIAN TUBE AND OVARY, RIGHT, SALPINGO-OOPHORECTOMY:
- Ovary with cystic epithelial inclusions and involuting corpus luteum/early albicans, and
serosal adhesions, some with associated reactive mesothelial proliferation
-
Fallopian tube with paratubal cyst lined by benign serous epithelium (hydatid of
Morgagni)
-
No evidence of metastatic carcinoma
C. UTERUS, TOTAL ABDOMINAL HYSTERECTOMY:
-
Primary uterine adenocarcinoma, endometrioid type with focal associated squamous
changes, FIGO grade I, nuclear grade mostly 2 with a minor subpopulation of tumor cells
exhibiting grade 3 features
-
Endometrium of uterine fundus and uterine corpus is extensively involved by
adenocarcinoma
-
Tumor also extends into the lower uterine segment
-
In the uterus, the tumor partially replaces endometrial polyp in a few areas
-
Myometrial invasion by carcinoma is present and involves less than 50% ( inner
third of the muscular uterine wall)
-
No lymphatic or blood vessel invasion by carcinoma identified
-
No extension of tumor into cervix
-
Vaginal cuff is free of tumor
-
Parametrial tissues are tumor free
-
Proximal intrauterine and/or paracornual portion of left fallopian tube with
acute and chronic inflammation, epithelial hyperplasia, and atypia of uncertain
significance
-
Non-neoplastic endometrium exhibits hyperplastic features, simple and complex types
with associated atypia
-
Single uterine leiomyoma
-
Serosal adhesions
Patient Case(s):
Local
Page 1 of 4
PATH #:
-
Cervix with chronic and mild acute inflammation, focal changes suggestive of prior
curettage, squamous metaplasia, reactive epithelial changes, endocervical tunnel clusters
and nabothian cysts
-
Vaginal cuff mucosa with chronic inflammation
D. LYMPH NODE, RIGHT COMMON ILIAC, EXCISION:
-
One reactive lymph node
-
No evidence of metastatic carcinoma (0/1)
E. LYMPH NODE, RIGHT PELVIC, EXCISION:
-
One reactive lymph node
-
No evidence of metastatic carcinoma (0/1)
F. SOFT TISSUE, DESIGNATED "LYMPH NODE", LEFT COMMON ILIAC, EXCISION:
-
Adipose tissue and scant fibrous tissue
-
No lymph node identified
-
No evidence of metastatic carcinoma
G. LYMPH NODES, LEFT PELVIC, EXCISION:
-
Four reactive lymph nodes
-
No evidence of metastatic carcinoma (0/4)
H-J. OMENTUM "#1, #2, #3", PARTIAL OMENTECTOMY:
-
Adhesions, foci of fibrosis, recent hemorrhages, and/or reactive mesothelial proliferation
-
No evidence of metastatic carcinoma
COMMENT: The preliminary pathologic findings were reported to the office of Dr.
on
HISTORY: Not provided
MICROSCOPIC: See diagnosis.
SPECIAL STUDIES: H&E-stained step sections (C13 x2)
IMMUNOSTAINS: None
GROSS:
A. LEFT FALLOPIAN TUBE AND OVARY
Labeled with the patient's name, labeled "left fallopian tube and ovary", and received in formalin is a salpingo-
oophorectomy specimen. The ovary is about 3.5 X 2.0 X 1.5 cm and has an undulated tan to pink-tan serosal surface
with several adhesions. Cut surfaces of the ovary are remarkable for a 1.3 cm diameter amber corpus luteum cyst
that contains bloody fluid. The adjacent fallopian tube has fimbria at one end, is 5.0 cm long, and ranges from
about 0.3 to 0.6 cm in diameter. The fallopian tube has a pink-tan congested serosal surface and a patent lumen that
measures up to 0.2 cm in diameter. The ovary and fallopian tube appear grossly free of metastatic tumor.
Representative sections are submitted.
A1.
Ovary 1
A2.
Fallopian tube - 2
B. RIGHT TUBE AND OVARY
Labeled with the patient's name, labeled "right tube and ovary", and received in formalin is a salpingo-
oophorectomy specimen. The ovary is 2.7 X 1.5 X 1.2 cm. The ovary has a tan, focally bloodied external surface
that is generally smooth except for a few tiny adhesions. Cut surfaces of the ovary reveal a peripheral rim of
yellow-tan cortical stroma, several corpora albicantia, and a minute cystic space. The adjacent fallopian tube has
fimbria at one end, is about 5.0 cm long, ranges from 0.5 to 0.6 cm in diameter and has a somewhat congested pink-
SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT
Page 2 of 4
PATH #:
red serosal surface. There is a 1.5 cm diameter clear fluid-filled thin-walled translucent paratubal cyst attached to
the fallopian tube near the fimbriated end. Elsewhere the serosal surface of the fallopian tube is pink-tan and
relatively smooth. Cross sections of the fallopian tube reveal a stellate patent lumen, about 0.2 cm in maximum
dimension. The ovary and fallopian tube appear grossly free of metastatic tumor.
Representative sections are submitted.
B1.
Ovary 1
B2.
Fallopian tube and paratubal cyst - 2
C. UTERUS AND CERVIX
Labeled with the patient's name, labeled "uterus and cervix", and received in formalin is a 200 gram uterus which as
been previously incised. The uterus is symmetric. The uterus measures about 11.0 cm from fundus to ectocervix,
5.0 cm from cornu to cornu, and up to 5.0 cm from the anterior surface to the posterior surface. The serosal surface
is tan-pink and generally smooth except for a few tiny adhesions. The cervix is about 3.0 cm long and up to 3.2 cm
in diameter in the ectocervical region. Attached to the cervix, there is an up to 0.6 cm long cuff of grossly
unremarkable pink-tan vaginal mucosa. The mucosa lining the ectocervix is pink-tan and smooth. The external
cervical os is 0.5 cm in diameter and patent. The cervical transformation zone is distinct. The endocervical canal is
about 2.0 cm long and lined by tan rugose mucosa. Cut sections of the cervix reveal several mucus-filled cysts
ranging from about 0.1 to 1.0 cm in maximum dimension. The cervix appears grossly free of tumor. The
endometrial cavity is about 6.0 cm long and up to 5.0 cm in width. The endometrium of the uterine fundus and
uterine corpus show diffuse involvement by tumor. Tumor also extends into the lower uterine segment. The tumor
is soft, and tan and focally hemorrhagic. Cut sections of the uterus reveal relatively superficial myometrial invasion
involving less than one-third of the uterine wall thickness. The uninvolved myometrium is pink-tan and semifirm.
The muscular uterine wall has a maximum thickness of about 2.5 cm. Within the uterus there is a single sharply
circumscribed intramural leiomyoma that is about 1.3 cm in diameter and has a cut surface composed of firm solid
tan-white whorled tissue without grossly evident areas of hemorrhage or necrosis. Attached to the uterus, there are
parametrial soft tissues that measure up to about 1.0 cm in width on the right side and up to about 0.5 cm in width
on the left side. The parametrial tissues are focally hemorrhagic, but appear grossly free of tumor.
Representative sections are submitted.
C1.
Anterior cervix - 1
C2.
Posterior cervix and vaginal cuff - 1
C3.
Anterior lower uterine segment - 1
C4.
Posterior lower uterine segment - 1
C5.
Anterior lower uterine corpus - 1
C6.
Posterior lower uterine corpus - 1
C7.
Anterior mid uterine corpus - 1
C8.
Posterior mid uterine corpus - 1
C9.
Anterior uterine fundus - 1
C10. Posterior uterine fundus - I
C11. Leiomyoma - 1
C12. Right parametrial tissues - 1
C13. Left parametrial tissues - 2
D. RIGHT COMMON ILIAC LYMPH NODE
Labeled with the patient's name, labeled "right common iliac lymph node", and received in formalin are two
portions of soft yellow fatty tissue, each of which is about 1.5 cm in diameter. Within one of the aggregates of fatty
tissue, there is a single 1.0 cm diameter semisoft tan lymph node. The lymph node is bisected. The entire specimen
is embedded.
D1.
One bisected lymph node and fat - 3
E. RIGHT PELVIC LYMPH NODE
Labeled with the patient's name, labeled "right pelvic lymph node", and received in formalin is a 3.0 X 1.5 X 1.5 cm
portion of soft yellow adipose tissue within which there is embedded a single semisoft tan lymph node that
measures about 2.0 cm in maximum dimension. The lymph node is sectioned. The entire specimen is embedded.
E1.
One sectioned lymph node and fat - 2
SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT
Page 3 of 4
PATH #:
F. LEFT COMMON ILIAC LYMPH NODE
Labeled with the patient's name, labeled "left common iliac lymph node", and received in formalin is are two
portions of soft tan-yellow fibroadipose tissue, measuring about 1.0 cm and 2.5 cm in maximum dimension. No
lymph nodes or tumor are evident on gross inspection of the specimen.
Entirely submitted.
F1.
2
G. LEFT PELVIC LYMPH NODE
Labeled with the patient's name, labeled "left pelvic lymph node", and received in formalin are two portions of soft,
focally hemorrhagic yellow adipose tissue, within which there are embedded several semisoft tan lymph nodes. The
lymph nodes range from about 0.3 to 1.2 cm in maximum dimensions. The larger lymph node is bisected prior to
embedding. The lymph nodes are entirely embedded along with some of the perinodal fat.
G1.
Four lymph nodes (largest bisected) and fat - 3
H. OMENTUM #1
Labeled with the patient's name, labeled "omentum #1", and received in formalin is a 4.5 X 3.5 X 0.5 cm portion of
soft tan-yellow lobulated omental fat that appears grossly free of tumor. A representative section is submitted.
H1.
1
I. OMENTUM #2
Labeled with the patient's name, labeled "omentum #2", and received in formalin is a 5.0 x 2.5 x 0.7 cm portion of
soft tan-yellow lobulated omental fat that appears grossly free of tumor. A representative section is submitted.
I1.
1
J. OMENTUM #3
Labeled with the patient's name, labeled "omentum #3", and received in formalin is a 4.0 x 2.5 X 1.0 cm portions of
soft yellow focally hemorrhagic lobulated omental fat with some intervening fibrous tissue. No gross tumor is seen.
Representative sections are submitted.
J1.
2
Gross dictated by
I have personally examined the specimen, interpreted the results, reviewed the report and signed it electronically.
Electronically signed
riteria
Diagnosis Discrepancy
Yes
No
SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT
'rimary lumor Site Discrepancy
IIPAA Discrepancy
Page 4 of 4
Trior Malignancy History
Dust/Synchrancus! mary Noted
ase is (circle):
QUALIFIED
reviewer Initial
DISCUALIFIED
Date Reviewed:
