1 CD-0.3
aderocarcinione, Endometrinis Page 1 of 6
NOS
8380/3
be
Siterindomitrian C54.1
11/22/10
JUUID:32F8682E-B73F-4525-A845-7F240F9F40CE
TCGA-A5-A0G9-01A-PR
Redacted
PATH #.
A/S:
Rec:
Col:
Location:
Pathologist:
Assistant:
Attending MD:
Ordering MD:
Copies To:
DIAGNOSIS:
1. UTERUS, FALLOPIAN TUBES, AND OVARIES, TOTAL ABDOMINAL
HYSTERECTOMY AND UNILATERAL SALPINGO-OOPHORECTOMY:
-
Primary uterine adenocarcinoma, predominantly endometrioid-
- type with associated secretory, eosinophilic and squamoid
changes, focal mucinous type, and possible minor component of
tumor with clear cell features, FIGO grade III, nuclear
grade mostly 2, focally 3 (see comment)
-
Uterine fundus, anterior uterine corpus and posterior
uterine corpus are extensively involved by tumor
-
Myometrial invasion by carcinoma is present and
involves greater than 50% (about 65-70%) of the
uterine wall thickness in the deepest area of invasion
-
Carcinoma extends into the posterior lower uterine
segment; invasion by tumor in the posterior uterine
segment is superficial
- Lymphovascular invasion by carcinoma is present
- Adenomyosis with and without secondary involvement by
carcinoma
- No extension of carcinoma into endocervix or
ectocervix
-
No involvement of parametrial soft tissues by
carcinoma identified
-
Non-neoplastic endometrium is scant and ranges from
inactive/weakly proliferative to hyperplastic; foci of
simple and complex hyperplasia with atypia are present
-
Five uterine leiomyomas, third smallest of which is
present in the anterior lower uterine segment, second
largest of which shows extensive hyalinization and
calcifications and largest of which also shows extensive
hyalinization
-
Two benign tiny posterior endocervical polyps with
associated inflammatory changes and stromal hyalinization
-
Cervix also shows acute and chronic inflammation, focal
epithelial denudation, atrophic squamous changes,
squamous metaplasia, reactive epithelial changes, and
nabothian cysts
(continued on next page)
oratory Medicine
Page: 2
2. FALLOPIAN TUBE AND OVARY, RIGHT, SALPINGO-OOPHORECTOMY:
-
Ovary with senescent changes, relative cortical stromal
hyperplasia with associated hyperthecosis, cystic
epithelial inclusion, and a paraovarian mesothelial cyst
-
Fallopian tube with focal chronic perivascular inflammation
in the subserosa and focal mild epithelial hyperplasia
Page 2 of 6
without significant atypia
No evidence of metastatic carcinoma
3. FALLOPIAN TUBE AND OVARY, LEFT, SALPINGO-OOPHORECTOMY:
-
Ovary with atrophic changes, cortical stromal hyperplasia
with associated hyperthecosis, epithelial inclusion cysts
and a mesothelial cyst, latter probably paraovarian
rather than intraovarian
- Fallopian tube with foci of chronic perivascular
inflammation
- No evidence of metastatic carcinoma
4. LYMPH NODES, LEFT PELVIC, EXCISION:
-
Four lymph nodes negative for metastatic carcinoma (0/4)
5. LYMPH NODE, LEFT OBTURATOR, EXCISION:
- One lymph node negative for metastatic carcinoma (0/1)
6. LYMPH NODES, LEFT PERIAORTIC, EXCISION:
- Two lymph nodes negative for metastatic carcinoma (0/2)
7. LYMPH NODES, RIGHT PELVIC, EXCISION:
- Three lymph nodes negative for metastatic carcinoma (0/3)
8. LYMPH NODES, RIGHT OBTURATOR, EXCISION:
- Four lymph nodes negative for metastatic carcinoma (0/4)
9. LYMPH NODES, RIGHT PERIAORTIC, EXCISION:
- Three lymph nodes negative for metastatic carcinoma (0/3)
10. [SOFT TISSUE] DESIGNATED "LYMPH NODE #2", LEFT PELVIC,
EXCISION:
- Focally hemorrhagic adipose tissue
- No lymph node identified
- No evidence of metastatic carcinoma
COMMENT Preliminary pathologic findings were communicated to Dr.
Findings in additional routinely stained sections
have been incorporated in the final diagnosis.
HISTORY: Uterine carcinoma
MICROSCOPIC: See Diagnosis.
GROSS:
1: UTERUS CERVIX
(cont
ratory Medicine
Page: 3
Labeled with the patient's name, designated "uterus, cervix",
received fresh in the Operating Room for intraoperative gross
consultation and subsequently fixed in formalin is an 84 gram total
hysterectomy specimen. The uterus measures about 7.4 cm from the
fundus to the ectocervix, 3.8 cm from cornu to cornu, and up to 4.1
cm from the anterior surface to the posterior surface. The uterine
serosa is tan-red, and generally smooth except for procedure-related
artifact. Attached to the uterus, there is a small amount of pink-
tan firm parametrial soft tissue. The parametrial soft tissues,
bilaterally, appears grossly free of tumor. The cervix is about 2.8
cm long and has a maximum diameter of 1.9 cm in the ectocervical
region. The mucosa lining the ectocervix is tan and smooth. The
external cervical os is patent and about 0.9 cm in diameter. The
uterus was previously incised on both sides at the time of the
intraoperative consult. The cervical transformation zone is
distinct. The endocervical canal is about 2.1 cm long and lined for
Page 3 of 6
the most part by slightly rugose tan mucosa. In the posterior
endocervix, there are two tiny endocervical polyps, measuring about
0.2 and 0.3 cm in maximum dimension, each is composed of semi-soft
tan-white tissue. Cut sections of the cervix reveal multiple mucus-
filled cysts ranging from about 0.1 to 0.3 cm in diameter. The
cervix appears grossly free of tumor. The endometrial cavity is
about 5.0 cm long and up to 3.0 cm in diameter. The endometrial
cavity is largely occupied by an exophytic polypoid pale tan tumor
mass that has a friable and focally papillated surface. The tumor
mass measures about 4.2 X 3.0 cm in surface area and has a maximum
thickness of about 1.6 cm, including exophytic and endophytic
components. extensively involves the uterine fundus, anterior
uterine corpus, posterior uterine corpus, and extends into the
posterior lower uterine segment. Upon sectioning the uterus,
invasive carcinoma is seen involving the fundus, posterior uterine
corpus and anterior uterine corpus In the posterior fundus
and posterior corpus, greater than 50% of the wall thickness is
involved by tumor. Tumor in the anterior uterus and in the posterior
lower uterine segment is more superficially invasive (involves less
than 50% of the wall thickness) Within the uterus, mostly in the
lower anterior corpus and lower uterine segment, there is a small
amount of uninvolved tan endometrium that has a maximum thickness of
less than 0.1 cm. Within the uterus, there are five sharply
circumscribed intramural leiomyomas that measure about 0.3, 0.5,
0.6, 1.2 and 1.5 cm in maximum dimensions. The smallest and second
smallest leiomyomas are in the fundus. The third smallest
leiomyoma is located in the anterior lower uterine segment. The
largest and second largest leiomyomas are located in the posterior
uterine corpus. The largest and second largest leiomyomas have firm
white cut surfaces without grossly evident areas of hemorrhage
or necrosis. The second largest leiomyoma is partially calcified.
The smallest and second smallest leiomyomas have firm tan-white
whorled cut surfaces without grossly evident areas of hemorrhage or
necrosis. The uninvolved myometrium is semi-firm, tan-pink, up
to 1.8 cm in thickness and shows trabeculations and focal minute
cystic spaces suggestive of adenomyosis.
Representative sections.
L. Posterior cervix with two tiny endocervical polyps - 1
M. Anterior cervix - 1
N. Posterior lower uterine segment with tumor and adjacent upper
posterior endocervix - 1
(cor
oratory Medicine
O. Anterior lower uterine segment WILL small leiomyoma and
Page: 4
adjacent upper endocervix - 1
P. Posterior uterine fundus with deeply invasive tumor and small
leiomyoma - 2
Q. Posterior uterine corpus with tumor and second largest leiomyoma
- 1
R. Lower posterior uterine corpus with tumor and largest leiomyoma
- 1
S. Anterior uterine fundus with tumor and small leiomyoma - 1
T. Anterior uterine corpus with tumor - 1
U. Lower anterior uterine corpus - 1
V. Left parametrial soft tissues - 2
W. Right parametrial soft tissue - 2
2: RIGHT ADNEXA
Labeled with the patient's name, designated "right adnexa", received
fresh in the Operating Room and subsequently fixed in formalin, is a
salpingo-oophorectomy specimen. The ovary is atrophic, about 2.6 X
1.1 X 0.1 cm and has a generally smooth, tan-yellow serosal surface.
Attached to the ovary, there is a translucent thin-walled
paraovarian cyst that contains clear pale yellow fluid. The
Page 4 of 6
paraovarian cyst measures about 0.7 cm in maximum dimension. Cut
surfaces of the ovary reveal relatively abundant yellow-tan cortical
stroma and several corpora albicantia, but no gross evidence of
metastatic tumor. The fallopian tube has fimbria at one end, is 9.2
cm long, ranges from 0.3 to 0.5 cm in diameter, has a smooth, tan-
red serosal surface, and a patent lumen, up to 0.1 cm in diameter.
The fallopian tube appears grossly free of metastatic tumor.
Representative sections.
A. Ovary, paraovarian cyst, and fallopian tube - 4
3:
LEFT ADNEXA
Labeled with the patient's name, designated "left adnexa" and
received in formalin is a salpingo-oophorectomy specimen. The ovary
is atrophic, about 2.3 x 1.2 X 0.7 cm and has a yellow-tan undulated
serosal surface. Attached to the ovary, there is a thin-walled
translucent unilocular paraovarian cyst that contains clear pale
yellow fluid and measures about 0.4 cm in maximum dimension. Cut
surfaces of the ovary reveal abundant yellow-tan cortical stroma and
a few corpora albicantia, but no gross evidence of metastatic tumor.
The adjacent fallopian tube has fimbria at one end, is 8.1 cm long,
and ranges from 0.3 to 0.4 cm in diameter. The serosal surface of
the fallopian tube is pink-tan and smooth. The fallopian tube has
a
patent lumen, up to 0.1 cm in diameter and appears grossly free of
metastatic tumor.
Representative sections.
B. Ovary, paraovarian cyst, and fallopian tube - 4
4 : LEFT PELVIC LYMPH NODE NO1
Labeled with the patient's name, designated "left pelvic lymph node
#1", received fresh in the Operating Room for intraoperative frozen
section, is a 4.5 X 4 X 1.7 cm aggregate of soft yellow fatty tissue,
within which there are embedded four semisoft tan lymph nodes. The
lymph nodes range from about 0.7 to 2.5 cm in maximum dimension. The
largest lymph node is sectioned into four portions and entirely
frozen for intraoperative diagnosis (FS#1). Interpretation of the
frozen section was rendered by Dr.
The frozen section remnants
and the rest of the specimen are subsequently fixed in formalin.
(c
liboratory Medicine
Page: 5
Lymph nodes entirely embeddea.
C. Three lymph nodes, largest bisected - 3
D. Largest lymph node (remnant of frozen section #1) - 4
5: LEFT OBTURATOR LYMPH NODE
Labeled with the patient's name, designated "left obturator lymph
node" and received in formalin is a 1.6 X 1.3 X 0.3 cm portion of
yellow fatty tissue, within which there is embedded a single soft tan
lymph node that measures about 0.4 cm in diameter.
Entirely submitted.
E. One lymph node and fat - 1
6: LEFT PERIAORTIC LYMPH NODE
Labeled with the patient's name, designated "left periaortic lymph
node" and received in formalin are three tissue fragments. The
largest tissue fragment is about 1.2 cm in maximum dimension and
consists of yellow fatty tissue and a 0.5 cm semisoft tan lymph node.
The second largest tissue fragment is about 1 cm in maximum dimension
and consists of tan-yellow fibroadipose tissue. The third tissue
fragment is about 0.7 cm in maximum dimension and consists of a 0.6
cm semisoft tan lymph node with a small amount of adjacent fat.
Entirely submitted.
F. Two lymph nodes and fat - 3
7: RIGHT PELVIC LYMPH NODE
Labeled with the patient's name, designated "right pelvic lymph
Page 5 of 6
node" and received in formalin is a 5 X 2.7 X 0.7 cm aggregate of
mostly soft yellow adipose tissue. Dissection of the fat reveals
three tiny to small semisoft tan lymph nodes ranging from about 0.2
to 0.3 cm in maximum dimension. The lymph nodes are each entirely
embedded.
G. Three lymph nodes - 3
8: RIGHT OBTURATOR LYMPH NODE
Labeled with the patient's name, designated "right obturator lymph
node" and received in formalin is a 4.2 X 3.0 X 1.2 cm aggregate of
soft yellow fatty tissue, within which there are embedded four
semisoft tan lymph nodes that range from about 0.5 to 1.3 cm in
maximum dimensions. The lymph nodes are each entirely embedded along
with some of the perinodal fat.
H. TWO lymph nodes, each bisected - 4
I. Two smaller lymph nodes - 2
9: RIGHT PA
Labeled with the patient's name, designated "right PA" and received
in formalin is a 4.6 X 2.3 X 1.5 cm aggregate of soft yellow adipose
tissue, within which there are embedded three semisoft tan lymph
nodes. The lymph nodes measure about 0.5, 0.6, and 0.8 cm in maximum
dimension. The lymph nodes are each entirely embedded along with
some of the perinodal fat.
J. Three lymph nodes and fat - 4
10: LEFT PELVIC LYMPH LYMPH NODE NO2
Labeled with the patient's name, designated "left pelvic lymph
node" and received ion formalin is a 1.8 x 1.4 x 0.3 cm portion of
focally hemorrhagic soft yellow adipose tissue. No lymph node is
identified.
Entirely submitted.
(continued on next page)
oratory Medicine
Page: 6
Gross dictated by
OPERATIVE CALL
OPERATIVE CONSULT (GROSS)
#1 Uterus and cervix:
Previously opened uterus with deeply invasive, greater than 50%
of myometrium, neoplasm; small portion of tumor sent to
research lab
OPERATIVE CONSULT (GROSS) :
#2. Right adnexa:
-Small portion of ovary sent to research lab
OPERATIVE CONSULT (FROZEN)
#4. Left pelvic lymph node:
-One slightly firm lymph node identified by surgeon negative
for metastatic carcinoma; fragments of adipose tissue and
lymph nodes
Special Studies: Frozen section (x1 on specimen #4) additional H&E -
stained sections (Ax2, Fx1, Px1, Qx1, Sx1, and UX1)
See Also:
M.D.
Page 6 of 6
Pathologist
I,
M.D. , the pathologist of record, have
personally examined the specimen, interpreted the
results, reviewed this report and signed it electronically,
Date Finalled:
literia
Yes
No
Diagnosis Discrepancy
'rimary Tumor Site Discrepancy
IIPAA Discrepancy
rior Malignancy History
dual/Synchronous Primary Noted
ase is (circle):
QUALIFIED >I DISQUALIFIED
Reviewer Initials
Date Reviewed:
