Confidential
UUID:BC43D6CA-235C-4217-BF72-F33B089C532B
TCGA-4E-A92E-01A-PR
Redacted
Site ID
Subject Number:
Please complete ALL information with black ball point pen. Ensure information is legible.
Retain original and email/fax copy to
Sample Collection Date:
Procured by:
00 . M M / M - Y Y Y
Y
Time of Tumor Sample Excision
(24 hour clock):
Time Zone:
H H : M M
TUMOR-FROZEN & FRESH SAMPLES
FROZEN SAMPLES BATCH
SHIPPED (dry ice); FRESH TUMOR SAMPLE, IF COLLECTED, SHIPPED ON DAY OF COLLECTION
Collect resected tumor in accordance with standard procedures. Weigh the sample and section off ~100mg.
Frozen Tumor (Required)
Place this sample in the cryovial labeled Frozen Tumor sample and record the weight. Place the cryovial in a cane and
then into the vapor phase dewar. Record the time placed in dewar.
Weight of Tissue: 260 mg
Time placed in dewar:
(tissue weight must be 100mg)
(24 hour clock)
H H M M M
Fresh Tumor (Optional)
N/A
Locate the "Fresh Tumor" label in the kit and affix to the 15ml
tube (sent separately). Place any remaining
tumor tissue into the 15ml conical tube containing
Weight of Tissue: 140 mg
Time placed in
-
Lot Number of
(no min. weight specified)
(24 hour clock)
H H : M M
-
WHOLE BLOOD SAMPLE (Required) - BATCHED SHIPPED FROZEN (dry ice)
Sample Collection Date:
D D M M M Y Y Y Y
Procured by:
-
Time of Blood Sample Collection
(24 hour clock):
I
Time Zone:
H H : M' M
1-10ml EDTA tube. Fill tube completely and mix by gentle inversion at least 8-10 times. Freeze sample on dry ice or
place in vapor phase dewar.
Time placed in dry ice/dewar:
(24 hour clock)
H H : M M
BASIC PATHOLOGICAL INFORMATION
Clinical Diagnosis:
(Ex. Lung Cancer)
EndometRiAl CAncer Source of Specimen: Endometrial SAL
(Ex. Right Lung)
Confidential
Valid from
Page 1 of 2
ICD -0-3 -
Adenicareminad, endonetricid NOS
838013
Site Endometrium
C54.1
to 3/26/14
Confidential
Tissue/Blood Requisition Form
Affix Label Here
Or Write in Sample ID
Site ID:
Subject Number:
Diagnostic Slides (Required) - SLIDES BATCHED SHIPPED (ambient)
From the diagnostic FFPE block, cut 3 slides with one section ~ 4-5um on each slide. Label the frosted tip of the slide
in pencil with the sample ID (located on the label at the top of this form). Record the ID number of the diagnostic
histology cassette and the number of slides. H&E stain the slides and store in a slide mailer.
Diagnostic Histology Cassette ID
Number of Slides Cut
3
Refer to
Study Manual for detailed specimen processing and shipping Instructions. (1 denotes required samples)
Specimen
Collection Vessel
Transfer Tube
Shipping Status
Frozen Tumor*
None
Cryovial
Same Day - Dry Ice
Frozen Blood*
1-10ml EDTA
None
Same Day - Dry Ice
Fresh Tumor
None
15ml-
Same Day - Refrigerated
Diagnostic Slides*
Histology Cassette
SuperFrost Slides
5-Slide Mailer-Batch -
When FROZEN and FRESH samples are ready for shipment please notify by Email notification:
At this time; please also provide your Sample Manifest.
When the Diagnostic slides are ready for shipment please notify by Email notification:
At this
time pleaseralso provide your Sample Manifest.
DO NOT RETURN EMPTY CONTAINTERS TO
White copy Retain for your Records
Yellow:copy-send to pathology for diagnostic slides
Confidential
Valid from
Page 2 of 2
Surg Path Final Report
Final Report
Result Type:
Result Date:
Result Status:
Result Title:
Verified By:
Encounter info:
* Final Report *
Final Diagnosis (Verified)
Uterus and cervix with bilateral fallopian tubes and ovaries, resection:
Well-differentiated adenocarcinoma (endometrioid type, FIGO grade 1), confined to
endometrium.
There is no evidence of tumor invasion into underlying myometrium in the examined
sections and no evidence of lymphovascular invasion.
Focal adenomyosis.
Leiomyomas.
Benign cervical tissue with no evidence of neoplasm.
Benign parauterine tissue.
Benign fallopian tubes and ovaries.
Left external iliac lymph nodes, excision:
Benign adipose tissue.
No lymphoid tissue is present for evaluation.
Left internal iliac lymph nodes, excision:
Benign fibroadipose tissue.
No lymphoid tissue is present for evaluation.
Left aortic lymph nodes, excision:
One (1) benign lymph node with no evidence of metastatic neoplasm.
Right external iliac lymph nodes, excision:
One (1) benign lymph node with no evidence of metastatic neoplasm.
Right internal iliac lymph nodes, excision:
Page 1 of 3
(Continued)
Surg Path Final Report
*
Final Report *
Benign fibroadipose tissue.
Lymphoid tissue is not present for evaluation.
Right obturator lymph'nodes, excision:
Two (2) benign lymph nodes with no evidence of metastatic neoplasm.
Right common iliac lymph nodes, excision:
Benign fibroadipose tissue.
Lymphoid tissue is not present for evaluation.
Right aortic lymph nodes, excision:
Two (2) benign lymph nodes with no evidence of metastatic neoplasm.
Comment: AJCC pathologic stage: T1a,NO.
Gross Description (Verified)
"A, Uterus, cervix, bilateral tubes, and ovaries." The specimen consists of a 53 gram, 7.2 x 3.6 x 3.5 cm previously bivalved uterus with
attached cervix. The serosa is pink-tan with rare adhesions The ectocervix is pink-tan to red-tan, smooth and glistening, and averages 3.1 x
2.6 cm. The os is patent. The cervical neck is inked as follows: anterior cervical neck orange and posterior cervical neck black. Previous
opening reveals a pink-tan. soft, friable mass involving the superior endometrium This has an overall measurement of 1.7 cm superior to
inferior, 1.5 cm left to right. and 0.9 cm anterior to posterior. This mass grossly appears to predominantly involve the anterior endometrium,
This mass grossly appears to be confined to the inner one-half aspect of the myometrium and comes to within 0.8 cm of the anterior serosa
The remaining endometrium is pale tan and averages less than a millimeter in thickness. The myometrium averages 1.4 cm in thickness
There are less than five (5) intramural nodules measuring up to 0.7 C. On sectioning these have gray-white, whoried cut surfaces. Attached
to the uterus is the left fallopian tube with fimbriae, which measures 4.5 x 0.4 cm. Adherent to the tube is a 0.3 cm thin-walled yellow-tan,
serous fluid-filled cyst. There is also an attached left ovary, which measures 2.0 x 1.5 x 0.7 cm. On sectioning, there is a 0.5 cm white-tan,
corpus albicans. The remaining cut surface is pink-tan and solid. Attached to the uterus is the right fallopian tube with fimbriae, which
measures 5.8 x 0.4 cm Adherent to the fimbriae is a 0.4 cm thin-walled clear fluid-filled paratubal cyst. There is also an attached right ovary,
Page 2 of 3
(Continued)
Surg Path Final Report
Final Report
*
which measures 2.7 x 1.0 x 0.7 cm. On sectioning, there is a 0.6 cm white-tan corpus albicans. The remaining cut surface is pink-tan and
solid. "A1," left parauterine vessels; "A2," right parauterine vessels; "A3," anterior cervix and cervical canal; "A4-A6," anterior
endomyometrium; "A7," posterior cervix and cervical neck; "A8-A10," posterior endometrium; "A11," intramural nodules; "A12," left tube and
ovary; "A13," right tube and ovary, representative.
"B, Left external iliac." The specimen consists of a 3.7 cm yellow-tan, fatty fragment. On examination definite lymphoid tissue is not
identified All tissue is submitted into cassettes "B1-B2."
"C. Left internal iliac." The specimen consists of a 2.3 cm yellow-tan, fatty fragment. On examination, definite lymphoid tissue is not identified.
All tissue is submitted into cassette "C."
"D. Left aortic." The specimen consists of a 3.2 cm yellow-tan, fatty fragment. On examination, a 1.1 cm possible on is identified. All lymphoid
tissue is submitted into cassette "D," representative.
"E, Right external." The specimen consists of two (2) yellow-tan, fatty fragments measuring 3.1 and 3.3 cm. On examination, a 2.0 cm
possible lymph node is identified. A representative section is submitted into cassette "E."
"F. Right internal." The specimen consists of a 1.4 cm yellow-tan, fatty fragment. On examination, definite lymphoid tissue is not identified. All
tissue is submitted into cassette "F."
"G, Right obturator." The specimen consists of two (2) yellow-tan, fatty fragments measuring 2.2 and 5.6 cm. On examination, two (2)
possible lymph nodes are identified These measure 1.6 and 4.2 cm. Representative sections are submitted into cassette "G."
"H, Right common iliac." The specimen consists of a 2.1 cm yellow-tan, fatty fragment. On examination definite lymphoid tissue is not
identified. All tissue is submitted into cassette "H."
"I, Right aortic." The specimen consists of a 2.0 cm yellow-tan, fatty fragment On examination, two (2) possible lymph nodes are identified.
These measure 1.0 and 1.1 cm. Representative sections are submitted into cassette "l."
Clinical Information (Verified)
Uterine cancer.
Page 3 of 3
(End of Report)
Non-Gyn Final Report
*
Final Report
Result Type:
Result Date:
Result Status:
Result Title:
Verified By:
Encounter info:
* Final Report *
Comment (Verified)
Scant cellularity.
Diagnosis (Verified)
Negative for neoplastic cells.
Specimen Description (Verified)
Pelvic Washing
40 cc's of bloody fluid/material received in a cup.
Processed by
Clinical Information (Verified)
uterine cancer
Printed by:
Page 1 of 1
Printed on:
(End of Report)
be 12/13/13
Yes
No
Criteria
Diagnosis Discrepancy
Primary Tumor Site Discrepancy
HIPAA Discrepancy
Prior Malignancy History
Dual/Synchronous Primary Noted
Case Reviewer is (circle): Initials gave Date Reviewed: 13/9/2013
QUALIFIED / DISQUALIFIED
