1
ICD-0-3
Adenocarcinoma, Endometrioid, NOS
8380/3
be
Site:indometrusm c54.1
11/22/10
UUID: 236A4F391-2F46-4896-8E53-223202E42A38
TCGA-A5-A0GA-01A-PR
Redacted
Ordering M.D.:
Copies To:
Age/Se
Assistant:
Location:
Date of Procedure:
Date Received:
SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT
AMENDED REPORT
*****
Reason for Amendment/Correction #1: Additional findings
DIAGNOSIS:
A. LEFT ADNEXA:
-
Ovary and fallopian tube with no pathologic diagnosis
B. RIGHT ADNEXA:
-
Ovary and fallopian tube with no pathologic diagnosis
C. UTERUS AND CERVIX:
-
Endometrial adenocarcinoma, endometrioid type, grade 3, invasive, depth 12.0 of 26.0
mm
-
Extensive lymphatic invasion present
-
Lower uterine segment and cervix: No tumor seen
- Leiomyomas
D. RIGHT PARAAORTIC LYMPH NODE:
-
Metastatic endometrioid carcinoma in one lymph node
E. RIGHT PELVIC LYMPH NODE:
-
Metastatic endometrioid carcinoma in one node
-
Four lymph nodes, no tumor seen
F. LEFT PELVIC LYMPH NODE:
-
Metastatic endometrioid carcinoma in the largest lymph node
-
One small lymph node, no tumor seen
G. SACRAL LYMPH NODE:
-
Lymph node, no tumor seen
H. IMA NODE:
-
Metastatic endometrioid carcinoma in lymph node
I. APPENDIX:
-
Mucinous neoplasm of borderline malignancy
J. CEPHALAD IMA NODE:
-
Metastatic endometrioid carcinoma in lymph node extending to perinodal soft tissue
K. LEFT PA LYMPH NODE:
-
Metastatic endometrioid carcinoma in two of two lymph nodes
L. LEFT RENAL LYMPH NODE:
Patient Case(s):
Page 1 of 6
DP
11\11
D REPORT
PATH #:
-
Metastatic endometrioid carcinoma in the largest node with extension into perinodal soft
tissue
-
Three smaller lymph nodes, no tumor seen
M. RENAL NODE:
-
Lymph node, no tumor present
N. RIGHT RENAL NODE:
Metastatic endometrioid carcinoma in lymph node with extension into perinodal soft
tissue
O. OMENTUM:
Adipose tissue, no tumor seen
P. RIGHT COLON, DISTAL ILEUM:
-
Tubular adenoma in right colon
-
Eighteen lymph nodes, no tumor seen
COMMENT: The endometrioid carcinoma is a grade 3 tumor in the endometrium. Some of the
metastases in the lymph nodes appear to be grade 2; however, it is difficult to grade the tumor
because there is extensive squamous metaplasia in the primary tumor as well as in the metastases
and there are clear cell changes.
Consultant: Dr.
I
reviewed the sections from the appendix.
HISTORY: Endometrial cancer
MICROSCOPIC:
See diagnosis.
GROSS:
A. LEFT ADNEXA
Labeled with the patient's name, labeled "left adnexa", and received in formalin is a salpingo-oophorectomy
specimen weighing 13 grams. The ovary measures 3.0 X 1.4 X 1.5 cm and has a pink-tan undulating serosal surface.
The ovary has been previously incised revealing multiple corpora albicantia and a thin tan-yellow rim of cortical
stroma. No tumor involvement is identified. The attached fallopian tube is fimbriated at one end and measures 5.3
cm in length and 0.5 cm in diameter. The serosal surface is pink-tan and smooth. Sectioning reveals a stellate
patent lumen up to 0.3 cm in diameter. Representative sections are submitted.
A1. Ovary
A2. Fallopian tube - 3
B. RIGHT ADNEXA
Labeled with the patient's name, labeled "right adnexa", and received in formalin is a salpingo-oophorectomy
specimen weighing 16 grams. The ovary measures 3.3 X 1.6 X 1.5 cm and has a tan-yellow undulating serosal
surface. The ovary has been previously incised revealing multiple corpora albicantia and a thin tan-yellow rim of
cortical stroma. No tumor involvement is grossly identified. The attached fallopian tube is fimbriated at one end
and measures 5.5 cm in length and 0.5 cm in diameter. The serosal surface is pink-tan and smooth. Sectioning
reveals a stellate patent lumen up to 0.3 cm in diameter. Representative sections are submitted.
B1. Ovary - 1
B2. Fallopian tube - 3
C. UTERUS AND CERVIX
SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT
Page 2 of 6
D REPORT
PATH #:
Labeled with the patient's name, labeled "uterus and cervix", and received fresh for gross consultation and
subsequently fixed in formalin is a total hysterectomy specimen weighing 340 grams. The uterus is symmetric in
shape. The uterus measures 12.0 cm from the fundus to the ectocervix, 7.0 cm from cornu to cornu, and
maximum of 6.0 cm from the anterior surface to the posterior surface. The serosal surfaces are pink-tan and a
smooth. The parauterine and paracervical soft tissues are inked black. The cervix is 3.7 cm in length and up to 4.0
The external cervical os is 0.8 cm in length and ovoid. The specimen has been previously incised along both sides.
cm in diameter in the ectocervical region. The ectocervix is gray-white and smooth with focal pinpoint hemorrhage.
The endocervical canal is 2.5 cm in length and lined by pink-tan rugose mucosa, The transformation zone is
distinct. One soft sessile polypoid lesion is note don the posterior surface of the lower uterine segment measuring
0.7 X 0.3 X 0.2 cm. The polyp is 2.0 cm superior to the transformation zone, Sectioning of the cervix reveals no
gross abnormalities. No vaginal cuff is present. The endometrial cavity is 6.5 cm in length and up to 7.0 cm in
width. Within the uterus is a friable, polypoid pink-tan tumor mass that measures 10.7 X 9.5 cm in total surface area
and involves the anterior and posterior corpus and fundus as well as possible extension into the lower uterine
segment on the posterior aspect. The exophytic portions of the tumor have a maximum thickness of 2.0 cm. The
uterus has been previously sectioned revealing invasion of the wall to approximately 50% depth. No normal-
appearing endometrial lining is identified except in the lower uterine segment, where the thickness ranges from 0.2
to 0.3 cm. The muscular uterine wall has a maximum thickness of 2,9 cm. The uninvolved myometrium is pink-tan
and firm. Four well-circumscribed intramural leiomyomas are identified measuring 2.0 to 3.7 cm in greatest
dimension. The cut surfaces of each leiomyoma are gray-white firm and whorled without gross evidence of
hemorrhage, necrosis or calcification. The parametrial and paracervical soft tissues appear grossly free of tumor.
Representative sections are submitted.
C1. Anterior cervix - 1
C2. Anterior lower uterine segment - 1
C3. Posterior cervix - 1
C4. Posterior lower uterine segment with small polyp and possible invasion of larger tumor - 1
C5, C6. Anterior uterine corpus, bisected - 1 each
C7, C8. Anterior uterine fundus, bisected - 1 each
C9, C10. Anterior uterine fundus, bisected - 1 each
C11, C12. Posterior uterine corpus, bisected - 1 each
C13, C14. Posterior uterine fundus, bisected - 1 each
C15. Posterior uterine fundus - 1
C16. Right parametrial soft tissue - 2
C17. Left parametrial soft tissue - 2
C18. Three leiomyomas - 3
C19. Largest leiomyoma - 2
D. RIGHT PARAAORTIC LYMPH NODE
Labeled with the patient's name, labeled "right paraaortic lymph node", and received in formalin is a portion of tan-
X X 0.8 cm. The lymph node is sectioned and submitted entirely.
yellow 1.4 soft adipose tissue measuring 3.0 X 1.8 X 1.5 cm. Within the adipose tissue is one lymph node measuring 2.4
D1. 3
E. RIGHT PELVIC LYMPH NODE
Labeled with the patient's name, labeled "right pelvic lymph node", and received in formalin is an aggregate of tan-
yellow 1.0 3.1 soft adipose tissue measuring 4.0 X 3.2 X 3.0 cm. Within the adipose tissue are five lymph nodes measuring
to cm in greatest dimension. The largest lymph node has a gray-white firm gritty cut surface which is
lymph node is submitted.
grossly positive. The four smaller lymph nodes are entirely submitted. A representative section of the largest
E1. Four smaller lymph nodes - 4
E2. Portion of largest lymph node - 1
F. LEFT PELVIC LYMPH NODE
SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT
Page 3 of 6
DICAL CENTER
REPORT
PATH #:
Labeled with the patient's name, labeled "left pelvic lymph node", and received in formalin is a portion of tan-
yellow soft adipose tissue measuring 4.0 X 3.2 X 2.5 cm. Within the fatty tissue are two lymph nodes measuring 1.3
to 3.5 cm in greatest dimension. The cut surface of the larger lymph node is gray-white firm gritty and grossly
positive. Representative sections are submitted.
F1. Smaller lymph node (entire) - 1
F1. Portion of larger lymph node - 1
G. SACRAL LYMPH NODE
Labeled with the patient's name, labeled "sacral lymph node", and received in formalin is a portion of tan-yellow
soft adipose tissue measuring 2.0 X 1.5 X 1.4 cm. Within the adipose tissue is one lymph node measuring 1.4 x 0.8 X
0.4 cm. The lymph node is bisected and submitted entirely.
G1. 2
H. IMA NODE
Labeled with the patient's name, labeled "IMA node", and received in formalin is one lymph node measuring 1.1 X
H1. 2
1.0 X 0.9 cm with a scant amount of attached tan-yellow soft adipose tissue. Bisected and submitted entirely.
I. APPENDIX
Labeled with the patient's name, labeled "appendix", and received fresh for frozen section evaluation and
subsequently fixed in formalin is a previously opened appendix measuring 4.3 cm in length and 3.0 cm in diameter.
The appendix is grossly distorted. The serosal surface is pink-tan and smooth with focal hemorrhage and one
transmural defect measuring 0.5 X 0.5 cm. The resection margin is inked green. Periappendiceal fat measures 1.0
cm in width and up to 1.2 cm in thickness. The wall thickness ranges from 0.2 to 0.5 cm. The luminal surface is
lined by an adherent layer of tan-yellow mucus up to 1.7 cm in thickness, Admixed with the mucus is scattered tan-
yellow soft substance that appears to be necrotic tissue. The mucosa appears almost entirely denuded/replaced.
Some adherent tan-yellow soft necrotic tissue is present. Entirely submitted.
Il. Frozen section control for FS 1 - 1
12. 2
13. 3
I4. 4
15. 3
I6. 2
I7. 4
I8. 3
19. 3
I10. 3
I11. 4
I12. 4
I13. 3
114. 3
115. 3
J. CEPHALAD IMA NODE
Labeled with the patient's name, labeled "cephalad IMA node", and received in formalin is a 3.5x1.7x 1.5 cm
portion of tan-yellow soft adipose tissue. Within the adipose tissue is one lymph node measuring 2.2 X 1.4 X 1.4
cm. The lymph node is sectioned and submitted entirely.
J1, J2. 2 each
K. LEFT PA LYMPH NODE
Labeled with the patient's name, labeled "left PA lymph node", and received in formalin is a portion of tan-yellow
soft adípose tissue measuring 3.5 X 2.2 X 1.7 cm. Within the fatty tissue are two lymph nodes measuring 0.9 and 2.5
SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT
Page 4 of 6
REPORT
TH #:
cm in greatest dimension. The larger lymph node has a gray-white firm gritty cut surface which is grossly positive.
Representative sections are submitted.
K1. Entire smaller lymph node - 1
K2. Portion of larger lymph node - 1
L. LEFT RENAL LYMPH NODE
Labeled with the patient's name, labeled "left renal lymph node", and received in formalin is a portion of tan-yellow
soft adipose tissue measuring 3.0 X 2.0 X 1.3 cm. Within the adipose tissue are four lymph nodes measuring 0.3 to
2.0 cm in greatest dimension. The largest lymph node has a gray-white firm gritty cut surface which is grossly
positive. Representative sections are submitted.
L1. Three smaller lymph nodes (submitted entirely) - 3
L2. Portion of larger lymph node - 1
M. RENAL NODE #2
Labeled with the patient's name, labeled "renal node #2", and received in formalin is a portion of tan-yellow soft
adipose tissue measuring 2.2 X 1.7 X 0.4 cm. Within the adipose tissue are three lymph nodes measuring 0.3 to 0.5
cm in greatest dimension. The lymph nodes are trimmed and submitted entirely.
M1. 3
N. RIGHT RENAL NODE
Labeled with the patient's name, labeled "right renal node", and received in formalin is a portion of tan-yellow soft
adipose tissue measuring 2.1 X 1.7 X 0.6 cm. Within the adipose tissue is one lymph node measuring 1.2 X 1.0 X 0.4
cm. The lymph node is bisected and submitted entirely.
N1. 2
O. OMENTUM
Labeled with the patient's name, labeled "omentum", and received in formalin is a portion of tan-yellow soft adipose
tissue measuring 66.0 X 22.3 X 2.0 cm. Sectioning reveals a tan-yellow lobular cut surface with no gross evidence
of tumor involvement. Representative sections are submitted.
O1. 2
P. RIGHT COLON, DISTAL ILEUM
Labeled with the patient's name, labeled "right colon, distal ileum", and received in formalin is an ileocolon
specimen including 6.0 cm in length portion of distal ileum with an open circumference of 5.0 cm. The mucosa is
pink-tan, plicated and grossly unremarkable. The ileocecal valve is 5.0 cm in length and pink-tan and soft. The
portion of large bowel is 15.4 cm in length and 6.6 cm in open circumference. There is abundant attached tan-
yellow soft adipose tissue extending up to 5.0 cm from the bowel wall. The serosal surface is pink-tan and smooth.
The mucosa is pink-tan soft with the usual folds. One polypoid lesion is noted measuring 0,5 X 0.4 X 0.4 cm which
is 14.5 cm from the distal margin. The polyp does not appear to invade past the mucosa. Examination of the
attached fatty tissue reveals 18 lymph nodes measuring 0.2 to 1.2 cm in greatest dimension. Representative sections
are submitted.
P1. Proximal margin - 2
P2. Ileocecal valve - 1
P3. Polyp, bisected - 2
P4. Mucosa - 2
P5. Distal margin - 2
P6. Five lymph nodes - 5
P7. Five lymph nodes - 5
P8. Five lymph nodes - 5
P9. Three lymph nodes - 3
Gross dictated by ;
SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT
Page 5 of 6
ED REPORT
PATH #:
OPERATIVE CALL
OPERATIVE CONSULT (FROZEN):
FS1 (SPECIMEN I):
-
Mucinous neoplasm (adenomatous on section sampled). Cannot rule out malignancy (Drs.
and
rev
ewed slides and concur).
OPERATIVE CALL
OPERATIVE CONSULT (GROSS):
SPECIMEN C:
Uterus with extensive carcinoma involvement. Both exophytic and endophytic/invasive component
(deep half myometrium). Carcinoma may extend to LUS.
**AMENDMENT (
***
I. APPENDIX:
-
Mucinous neoplasm of borderline malignancy
-
A small focus of metastatic endometrioid adenocarcinoma measuring 1.5 mm in the serosa
of the appendix
COMMENT: This amendment report is issued to include in the diagnosis of the appendix a small
focus of metastatic endometrioid adenocarcinoma. The rest of the report remains the same.
I, the pathologist of record on the above amendment, personally examined the material described in the amendment,
interpreted the results, reviewed this amended report and signed it electronically.
If this report includes immunohistochemical test results, please note the following:
Numerous immunohistochemical tes"
-7d their performance characteristics determined by
Those immunohistochemical tests have not been cleared or approved by the
U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA), and FDA approval is not required.
I have personally examined the specimen, interpreted the results, reviewed the report and signed it electronically.
: Electronically signed
). Electronically signed
Criteria
Yes
No
Diagrosis Discrepancy
Primary Tumor Cite Discrepancy
HIPAA Discrepancy
Prior Malignancy History
SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT
Dual/Synchionous Primary Noted
Case is (circle):
QUALIFIED
/
QUALIFIED
Page 6 of 6
Reviewer Initials
Date Reviewer
