SURGICAL PATHOLOGY:
PROCEDURE DATE
RECEIVED DATE:
REPORT DATE:
COPY TO:
10 Consultation
Frozen Section Diagnosis: "Carcinoma, morphologically suggestive of
endometrial origin, results
reported to Dr.
following positive patient
identification"
Performed by Dr.
Pre-Op Diagnosis
Endometrial cancer
Post-Op Diagnosis
Same
Clinical History
Nothing indicated on requisition
Gross Description:
Container is labeled #1 "
- omental biopsy." Received in
formalin is a 5.0 x 3,4 x 0.2 cm portion of yellow tan fatty tissue.
Sectioning reveals no discrete nodules or mass lesions. The entire
specimen is sectioned and submitted in cassettes 1A-1C labeled
Container is labeled #2
peritoneal implant for frozen
section." Received for frozen section and subsequently placed in
formalin is a 0.9 x 0.5 x 0.2 cm portion of yellow tan soft tissue.
The entire specimen is submitted for frozen section. The frozen
section remnant is resubmitted for permanent in cassettes 2 labeled
Container is labeled #3
uterus, cervix, bilateral tubes
and ovaries." Received in formalin is a 65.7 gram 6.7 x 5.8 x 3.2
cm uterus with attached cervix, attached 8.0 gram right adnexa, and
attached 5.9 gram left adnexa. The serosa is smooth and gray tan.
A 2.8 x 2.3 cm ectocervix is surfaced by a gray tan mucosa which
surrounds a 0.9 x 0.3 cm os. The endocervical canal is tan and
corrugated on section. The endometrial cavity gives rise to a 3.4 x
:B42FF342-34F0-4611-A275-B979D7658510
TCGA-AJ-A30L-01A-PR
Redacted
ICD-0-3
Criteria
low 2/2/12
Yes
No
carcinoma, endometriand, NOS 8380/3
Diagnosis Discrepancy
Primary Tumor Site Discrepancy
HIPAA Discrepancy
Prior Malignancy History
Site: indometrium 254.1
Dual/Synchronous Prim ary Noted
Case (circle):
tw
Kml QUALIFIED wed DISQUALIZED 1/31/12
2/2/12
3.0 x 2.0 cm friable exophytic tan white tumor which focally
questionably involves the superior aspect of the posterior lower
uterine segment. On section the tumor extends 0.3 cm into the
myometrium where the myometrium is 1.0 cm thick. The remaining
myometrium is gray tan with a few up to 0.5 cm in greatest dimension
well circumscribed tan white coiled fibrous nodules. The right
adnexa consists of a 5.0 cm long x 0.5 cm diameter fallopian tube
attached to the mesovarian of a 2.0 x 1.2 X 0.7 cm smooth yellow tan
ovary. On section the fallopian tube is grossly unremarkable. The
ovarian stroma is homogeneously yellow tan. The left adnexa
consists of a 5.0 cm long x 0.4 cm diameter fallopian tube attached
to the mesovarium of a 2.4 x 1.1 x 0.7 cm smooth yellow tan ovary.
On section the fallopian tube is grossly unremarkable. The ovarian
stroma is homogeneously smooth yellow tan. Representative sections
are submitted for genomic studies in two cassettes labeled
Representative sections of the remaining tissue are
submitted in cassettes labeled as follows: 3A - representative
anterior cervix; 3B - representative posterior cervix; 3C -
representative anterior lower uterine segment; 3D - representative
superior posterior lower uterine segment; 3E-3G - representative
anterior endomyometrium to include tumor, 3E to include greatest
depth of invasion; 3H-3J - representative posterior endomyometrium
with tumor; 3K - representative intramural fibrous nodule; 3L-3M -
section of entire right parametrium; 3N-30 - section of entire left
parametrium; 3P - representative right ovary; 3Q - representative
right fallopian tube; 3R - representative left ovary; 3S -
representative left fallopian tube.
Container is labeled #4
- right pelvic lymph nodes."
Received in formalin is a 6.0 x 5.0 x 1.5 cm aggregate of multiple
irregular pieces of fatty tissue. Sectioning reveals numerous lymph
nodes up to 4.5 cm in greatest dimensions. All lymph nodes are
submitted in cassettes labeled
as follows: 4A - one bisected
lymph node; 4B - one sectioned lymph node, in toto; 4C - one
sectioned lymph node in toto; 4D-4E - one sectioned lymph node in
toto; 4F-4J - one sectioned lymph node in toto.
Container is labeled #5
- left.aortic nodes." Received
in formalin is a 3.7 x 3.2 x 1.2 cm aggregate of multiple pieces of
fatty tissue. Sectioning reveals multiple lymph nodes up to 2.5 cm
in greatest dimensions. All lymph nodes are submitted in cassettes
labeled as follows: 5A-5B - each with one bisected lymph node;
5C - one quadrisected lymph node; 5D-5E - one sectioned lymph node
in toto.
Container is labeled #6
left pelvic lymph node."
Received in formalin is a 5.5 x x 2.2 cm aggregate of two
irregular pieces of fatty tissue. Sectioning reveals numerous lymph
nodes up to 4.2 cm in greatest dimensions. All lymph nodes are
submitted in cassettes labeled ;" as follows: 6A - one
quadrisected lymph node; 6B - one sectioned lymph node in toto;
6C-6E - one sectioned lymph node in toto; 6F-6H - one sectioned
lymph node in toto.
Container is labeled #7 - right aortic nodes." Received
in formalin is a 4.7 x 2.8 x 1.2 cm portion of fatty tissue.
Sectioning reveals two 2.2 cm and 3.2 cm in greatest dimensions tan
gray lymph nodes. Both lymph nodes are entirely submitted in
cassettes labeled
as follows: 7A - section of entire small
lymph node; 7B-7E - one sectioned lymph node in toto.
Microscopic Description:
Reviewed are slides labeled
Final Diagnosis
Omentum, biopsy:
Benign fibroadipose tissue consistent with omentum.
No histologic evidence of metastatic carcinoma identified in
sections examined.
Peritoneal implants, biopsy:
Poorly differentiated carcinoma consistent with endometrial origin
(see comment).
Uterus, cervix, bilateral fallopian tubes and ovaries, hysterectomy
with bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy:
Tumor characteristics:
Specimen integrity: Intact.
Histologic type: Endometrioid carcinoma.
Histologic grade: 3 (FIGO: 3).
Tumor site: Tumor extensively involves endometrial cavity.
Tumor size: 3.4 x 3.0x2.0cm.
Myometrial invasion: Present, tumor invades 1.2 into a 1.5 cm
thick myometrium
(greater than one half).
Involvement of cervix: Present, tumor invades endocervical stroma.
Extent of involvement of other organs: Tumor present on peritoneal
surface (see comment).
Lymphovascular space invasion: Present.
Surgical margin status: Surgical margins free of malignancy in
sections examined.
Lymph node status: See below.
Other:
Myometrium:
Adenomyosis.
Ovaries, bilateral:
Endosalpingiosis.
Fallopian tubes, bilateral:
No pathologic diagnosis.
pTN stage: pT3aNO
Lymph nodes, right pelvic, regional resection:
Five lymph nodes negative for metastatic carcinoma (0/5).
Lymph nodes, left aortic, regional resection:
Four lymph nodes negative for metastatic carcinoma (0/4).
Lymph nodes, left pelvic, regional resection:
Four lymph nodes negative for metastatic carcinoma (0/4).
Lymph nodes, right aortic, regional resection:
Two lvmph nodes negative for metastatic carcinoma (0/2). PAS 9
CPT:
Comments
Histologic sections from the endometrial neoplasm demonstrate a
tumor comprised of large epithelial cells with marked pleomorphism
and prominent nuclear atypia. In areas there is glanular and
pseudo-glandular growth as noted; however, much of the neoplasm is
composed of sheet-like growth of these neoplastic cells with no
discernible glandular formation. The overall histologic
characteristics are those of a poorly differentiated (grade 3)
endometrial adenocarcinoma. Clinical correlation is recommended.
At the request of the undersigned pathologist, these slides have
been additionally reviewed by Dr. who concurs with the
diagnosis.
This test has been finalized at the
<Sign Out Dr. Signature>
