ICD-0-3
Carcinoma, indometrioid, NOS 8380/3
Site: indometrum C54.1
be
4/19/11
Surgical Pathology
DEPARTMENT OF PATHOLOGY
PATIENT:
SPECIMEN:
BIRTHDATE:
AGE:
Y
SEX: F
MRN:
Rm #:
PHYSICIAN:
PROCEDURE TE:
RECEIVED DATE:
REPORT DATE:
COPY TO:
Pre-Op Diagnosis
Endometrial cancer
Post-Op Diagnosis
Same
Clinical History
Nothing indicated on requisition
Gross Description:
Four parts
Container labeled
1 - left pelvic lymph nodes" are
6.0 x 4.8 X 2.6 cm of tan yellow fibroadipose tissue fragments which
on palpation and sectioning reveal several poorly defined tan yellow
to brown nodules up to 3.0 cm in greatest dimension. On sectioning
the largest nodule is a grossly fat cut surface. The individual
nodules are bisected and submitted labeled "A through C" while whole
smaller nodules are submitted labeled "D."
Container labeled
2 - right pelvic lymph nodes" are
5.0 x 4.0 x 1.7 cm of tan yellow fibroadipose tissue fragments which
on palpation and sectioning reveal several poorly defined tan yellow
to brown nodules up to 3.3 cm. On sectioning the largest nodule has
a fleshy and fatty cut surface. The individual nodules are bisected
and submitted labeled "A and D" while whole smaller nodules are
submitted labeled "C."
Container labeled
3 - uterus, cervix, bilateral tubes
and ovaries" is a previously anteriorly opened moderately distorted
uterus with attached cervix and bilateral adnexa. The uterus and
cervix together weigh 65 grams and on reconstruction measure
approximately 8.0 x 5.5 x 4.0 cm. The cervix has a wrinkled gray
tan ectocervical mucosa. The os is patent. The uterine canal
sounds to a depth of approximately 6.7 cm. The endocervical canal
is lined by trabeculated gray tan mucosa. The uterine serosa is
smooth and tan brown. The myometrium is up to 1.6 cm and is tan
UUID: 4D477218-A4D1-4940-AEF5 Redacted
Crite.ia
Yes
No
4CGA-AJ-A230-01A-PR
Diagnosis Discrepancy
Primary Tumor Site Discrepancy
HIPAA Discrepancy
Prior Malignancy History
Dual/Synchronous Primary Noted
(cintcircle)
QUALIFIED
/
DISQUALITIED
Date Reviewed
Page 2 of 3
brown and fibrotic. The majority of the endometrial canal is
occupied by friable granular gray tan to brown papilliferous lesion
occupying an area overall 4. x 3.5 cm which includes both the
anterior and posterior aspects as well as both lateral aspects in
the fundus. On sectioning this has a gritty gray tan fibrotic cut
surface grossly extending into the myometrium to within 0.3 cm of
the anterior serosa. In this area the lesion measures 1.8 cm in
thickness. The lesion extends grossly to within 0.3 cm of the
posterior serosa as well. This is seen within 0.4 cm of the fundic
serosa and within 0.2 cm of the right lateral aspect. The small
amount of parametrial soft tissue on each side shows no nodularity
or gross lesions.
The left fallopian tube is 4.6 x 0.5 x 0.5 cm. The right fallopian
tube is 5.5 x 0.5 x 0.5 cm. Each has a smooth tan brown serosa with
a tan wall and a pinpoint lumen. The left ovary is 2.0 x 1.2 x 0.8
cm and has a lobular gray tan outer surface with a mottled gray tan
fibrotic cut surface. The right ovary is 2.0 X 1.0 X 0.8 cm and has
a lobular gray tan to brown outer surface with a mottled gray tan
fibrotic cut surface having a few thin walled clear fluid filled
cystic structures with smooth inner linings measuring up to 0.3 cm.
Also received in the same container are two tissue cassettes each
labeled
Representative sections are submitted labeled
as follows: A anterior cervix; B - posterior cervix; C - lower
uterine segment and shaved posterior serosa; D and E - anterior
endomyometrium, F and G - posterior endomyometrium, H and I - left
lateral endomyometrium; J and K - right lateral endomyometrium; L
and M - fundic endomyometrium; N - left parametrium; o - right
parametrium; P - left adnexa; Q - right adnexa.
Container labeled
4 - right aortic node" is a 3.6 x
1.5 x 1.0 cm aggregate of tan yellow fibroadipose tissue fragments
which on palpation and sectioning reveal a few poorly defined tan
yellow nodular regions up to 0.8 cm. The nodular tissue is
submitted in a single cassette.
Microscopic Description:
Slides reviewed.
Final Diagnosis
Left pelvic lymph node dissection:
Nine benign hyperplastic regional lymph nodes (0/9).
Right pelvic lymph node dissection:
Six benign hyperplastic regional lymph nodes (0/6).
Hysterectomy:
Carcinona
of
Tumor characteristics:
Histologic type: Endometrioid carcinoma
Grade: Poorly differentiated WHO Grade III.
Location: Uterine fundus in general.
Extent of invasion: Tumor invades more than one-half of the
myometrium. Maximal thickness of myometrial invasion is 13 mm
into a 16 mm thick myometrium.
Extension of tumor: Does not involve endocervix or cervical
stroma.
Lymphovascular space invasion: Present.
Surgical margin status:
Cervical margin: Negative.
Left parametrial margin: Negative.
Right parametrial margin: Negative.
Lymph node status (utilizing all specimens submitted).
Page 3 of 3
Sites: Bilateral pelvic, right aortic.
Number of lymph nodes examined: 19
Number of lymph nodes containing metastatic carcinoma: 0 (0/19)
Other:
Cervix/endocervix: No pathologic diagnosis.
Endometrium: Complex hyperplasia with atypia.
Myometrium: No additional abnormalities.
Uterine serosa-bilateral fallopian tubes and ovaries:
Adhesions. SPC-A PAS 9
Right aortic lymph node dissection:
Four benign hyperplastic regional lymph nodes (0/4).
Stage: pT1b, NO
CPT: 88307 x 3, 88309
Comments
This test has been finalized at the
Campus.
<Sign Out Dr. Signature>
, M.D.
