ICD-0-3
Path. adeno carcinoma Serous papillary
:66DEDB33-CA2C-4967-8074-1EFC1FC3CF29
CGA-A5-A0G3-01A-PR
Redacted
8460/3 bw
CQCF: Adinocarcinoma snow NOS 8441/3) 11/22/10
Ordering M.D.:
Copies To:
Location:
Date of Procedure
Date Received
Site: endometrium C54.1
SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT
DIAGNOSIS:
A. OMENTUM (PARTIAL OMENTECTOMY):
- Omentum with microadhesions and a rare mesothelial inclusion
-
No evidence of malignancy
BILATERAL SALPINGO-OOPHORECTOMY):
B. UTERUS, BILATERAL FALLOPIAN TUBES AND OVARIES (HYSTERECTOMY,
-
Uterine papillary serous adenocarcinoma
-
Tumor size: 4.5 cm
-
Adenocarcinoma invades inner half of myometrium
-
serosal surface
Extensive myometrial lymphovascular lesion, into outer half of myometrium, close to
- - Cervix is involved by adenocarcinoma with invasion into endocervical stroma
Vaginal cuff is not involved by tumor
-
Surgical margins/parametrial tissue are not involved by tumor
-
Invasion of submucosal leiomyoma by adenocarcinoma
-
Possible bilateral paraovarian lymphovascular invasion (versus artifactual
displacement of tumor aggregates into vessels)
-
Foci of tumor necrosis with associated calcifications
-
IIIC) Staging information (AJCC 2002): pT2b N1 Mx (corresponding FIGO clinical stage
-
Small endometrial polyp partially involved by adenocarcinoma
-
Non-neoplastic endometrium is atrophic
- Adenomyosis
-
sclerosis and calcifications
Four leiomyomas, submucosal, intramural and subserosal (1.0 to 3.5 cm), showing foci of
-
Cervix with nabothian cysts and mild chronic inflammation
-
paraovarian lymphovascular invasion noted)
Bilateral atrophic ovaries with no evidence of metastatic adenocarcinoma (possible
-
metastatic adenocarcinoma
Bilateral fallopian tubes with focal mucosal hyperplasia, showing no evidence of
C. RIGHT PARAAOTTIC LYMPH NODES (EXCISION):
- Two lymph nodes positive for metastatic adenocarcinoma (2/2)
D. RIGHT COMMON ILIAC LYMPH NODES (EXCISION):
-
Two lymph nodes positive for metastatic adenocarcinoma (2/2)
E. RIGHT PELVIC LYMPH NODE (EXCISION):
Patient Case(s)
Page 1 of 4
-
One lymph node positive for metastatic adenocarcinoma (1/1)
-
Focal extracapsular extension identified
F. LEFT PELVIC LYMPH NODES (EXCISION):
-
One out of two lymph nodes positive for metastatic adenocarcinoma (1/2)
-
Focal endosalpingiosis in the lymph node showing metastatic adenocarcinoma
HISTORY: Endometrial carcinoma
MICROSCOPIC:
See diagnosis.
GROSS:
A. OMENTUM
Labeled with the patient's name, labeled "omentum", and received in formalin is a 7.5 X 6.0 X 0.5 cm portion of
yellow fatty tissue. No mass is identified.
Representative sections submitted.
A1. 1
B. UTERUS WITH BSO
Labeled with the patient's name, labeled "uterus with BSO", received fresh for intraoperative consultation and
subsequently opened and fixed in formalin is a 220 gram total hysterectomy bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy
specimen consisting of a previously opened uterus with attached fallopian tubes and ovaries. The uterus measures
8.0 X 6.5 X 6.5 cm. The exocervix measures approximately 4.0 X 4.0 cm. The endocervical canal measures 2.8 cm
in length and approximately 1.5 cm in diameter. The left ovary measures 2.0 X 1.5 X 0.8 cm and the left fimbriated
fallopian tube measures 4.0 cm in length and 0.5 cm in diameter. The right ovary measures 2.7 X 1.5 X 0.9 cm and
the right fimbriated fallopian tube measures 3.0 cm in length and 0.4 cm in diameter. The endometrial cavity
measures 4.5 cm in length and approximately 4.5 cm in width.
The endometrial cavity is partially lined by friable tan tumor measuring 4.5 X 4.0 cm which extends from the fundus
to the endocervical canal on both anterior and posterior surfaces. There is a 3.5 cm, posterior submucosal myoma
protruding into the endometrial cavity that is serviced by tumor. The anterior endometrial cavity is partially lined
by thin, smooth endometrium. Cut sections reveal invasion of tumor into the superficial one-third of the
myometrium. There are three additional myomas one located intramurally and two subserosally that range in size
from 1.0 to 2.5 cm in greatest dimension. Cut surfaces of the myomas reveal a white fibrous often whorled surface
and firm texture without hemorrhage or necrosis. The myometrium measures up to 2.5 cm in thickness away from
the myomas.
The exocervix and external os are grossly unremarkable. The serosa shows no gross abnormalities. The ovaries
and fallopian tubes are grossly unremarkable with no evidence of involvement by tumor.
Ink key: Anterior cervical parametrium - blue, posterior cervical parametrium - green.
Representative sections are submitted, including the entire ovaries and fallopian tubes.
B1. Anterior cervix - 1
B2. Posterior cervix - 1
B3. Anterior lower uterine segment - 1
B4. Posterior lower uterine segment - 1
B5-B7. Tumor posterior wall to serosa, including submucosal myoma - 1 each
B8. Tumor anterior wall to serosa - 1
B9-B10. Representative sections of tumor - 1 each
B11. Anterior lower uterine segment - 1
SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT
Page 2 of 4
PATH #:
B12. Posterior lower uterine segment - 1
B13, 14. Leiomyomas - 2, 1
B15. Right ovary - 1
B16. Right fallopian tube - 3
B17. Left ovary - 1
B18. Left fallopian tube - 3
B19. Anterior cervix to lower uterine segment - 1
B20. Posterior cervix to lower uterine segment - 1
B21. Tumor anterior wall to serosa - 1
B22. Tumor posterior wall to serosa - 1
B23. Submucosal myoma with overlying tumor - 1
B24. Submucosal myoma to underlying myometrium - 1
B25. Portion of smooth endometrium in the anterior wall - 1
B26. Left parametrium - 1
B27. Right parametrium - multiple
B28. Left ovary and fallopian tube - 3
B29. Right ovary and fallopian tube - 2
B30. Right ovary and fallopian tube - 4
C. RIGHT PARAAOTTIC NODE
Labeled with the patient's name, labeled "right paraaortic node", and received in formalin is a 4.5 X 1.5 X 1.0 cm
portion of tan firm and yellow fatty tissue. Two possible lymph nodes are identified. Lymph nodes entirely
submitted.
C1. One lymph node - 2
C2. One lymph node - 1
D. RIGHT COMMON ILIAC
Labeled with the patient's name, labeled "right common iliac", and received in formalin is a 3.5 X 1.5 X 1.0 cm
portion of tan-yellow fibrofatty tissue. Lymph node identified and entirely submitted.
D1. One lymph node - 2
E. RIGHT PELVIC NODE
Labeled with the patient's name, labeled "right pelvic", and received in formalin is a 4.5 X 2.5 X 1.2 cm portion of
tan firm and yellow fibrofatty tissue. One grossly positive lymph node is identified and bisected. Representative
sections submitted.
E1. 1
F. LEFT PELVIC NODE
Labeled with the patient's name, labeled "left pelvic", and received in formalin are two portions of tan firm
fibrofatty tissue measuring 1.5 to 2.0 cm in diameter. Two lymph nodes are identified and entirely submitted.
F1. One lymph node - 2
F2. One lymph node - 2
Gross dictated by
OPERATIVE CALL
OPERATIVE CONSULT (GROSS):
B. UTERUS AND CERVIX:
-
Anterior and posterior corpus with friable lesion, abutting lower uterine segment - upper
endocervix
-
Tissue procured for research
SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT
Page 3 of 4
PATH #:
If this report includes immunohistochemical test results, please note the following:
Numerous immunohistochemical tests were developed and their performance characteristics determined by
Those immunohistochemical tests have not been cleared or approved by the
U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA), and FDA approval is not required.
I have personally examined the specimen, interpreted the results, reviewed the report and signed it electronically.
Electronically signed
Criteria
Yes
No
Diagnosis Discrepancy
SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT
Primary Tumor Site Discrepancy
Page 4 of 4
HIPAA Discrepancy
Prior Malignancy History
Dual/Synchronnus Primary Noted
Case is (circle):
QUALIFIED
CISCULARIFED
Reviewer Initials
Date Reviewed:
NI
