SURGICAL PATHOLOGY:
MRN:
Rm #
PHYSICIAN
PROCEDURE
DATE:
RECEIVED DATE:
REPORT DATE:
COPY TO:
IO Consultation
TP DIAGNOSIS: "Adenocarcinoma (reported to Dr
positive
patient ID)" by Dr.
Pre-Op Diagnosis
Endometrial cancer
Post-Op Diagnosis
Same
Clinical History
Nothing indicated on requisition
Gross Description:
Five parts
Container labeled "
1 - uterus, cervix, bilateral tubes
and ovaries" has a previously partially laterally opened markedly
distorted uterus with attached cervix and bilateral adnexa received
after tissue harvest for genomic study. The uterus and cervix
together weigh 318 grams and on reconstruction measure approximately
12.5 x 8.5 x 8.5 cm. The cervix has a wrinkled gray-tan to pink
ectocervical mucosa. The os is patent. The uterine canal sounds to
a depth of approximately 7.5 cm. The endocervical canal is lined by
trabeculated tan-pink mucosa. The uterine serosa is smooth and
tan-pink. The architecture is distorted by multiple subserosal and
intramural well defined tan-white fibrous nodules with bulging
whorled tan-white fibrotic cut surfaces. These measure up to 3.2 cm.
The uninvolved myometrium measures up to 2.6 cm and is tan-pink and
finely trabeculated. The endometrial canal is markedly distorted by.
the presence of the previously mentioned nodules and is occupied by
a friable papilliferous tan-gray to pink lesion occupying an area of
approximately 6.2 x 3.5 cm. In the posterior aspect In the fundus
this grossly appears to focally extend into the underlying
muscularis where in the area of the fundus this is seen within 1.0
cm of the serosa. A small amount of parametrial soft tissue on each
side shows no nodularity or gross lesions. The left fallopian tube
UUID:73D1F890-5799-4166-9F9A-F9852979FD29
TCGA-AJ-A3QS-01A-PR
Redacted
ICD-0-3
carcinoma, serous, NOS
8441/3
Site: endometrium
Criteria
Diagnosis Discrepancy
Yes
No
C54.1
Primary Tumor Site Discrepancy
330-12
HIPAA Discrepancy
RD
Prior Malignancy History
Dual/Svn.chronous Primar Noted
QUALIFIED
Reviewer in
DISQUARINED
3/3/15 3/2/12
measures 3.6 x 0.5 x 0.5 cm. The right fallopian tube measures 2.9
x 0.5 x 0.5 cm. Each has a focally shaggy pink-red serosa. Each has
an apparent area of discontinuity which may be consistent with
previous ligation. On sectioning, each has a tan wall with a
pinpoint lumen. The left ovary measures 2,0 x 1.2 x 1.0 cm and has
a lobular tan outer surface with a mottled tan-gray fibrotic cut
surface. The right ovary measures 2.1 x 1.2 x 0.7 cm and has a
lobular tan outer surface with a mottled tan fibrotic cut surface.
Also received in the same container are three tissue cassettes each
labeled
Representative sections are submitted
labeled as FOLLOWS: A - anterior cervix; B - posterior cervix: C
lower uterine segment shaved posterior serosa; D-E - nodules; F-G
full thickness anterior endomyometrium; H-J - anterior
endomyometrium; K-L - full thickness posterior endomyometrium; M-P -
posterior endomyometrium; Q-R - left lateral endomyometrium; S-T
right lateral endomyometrium; U-X - fundic endomyometrium; Y - left
parametrium; Z - right parametrium; AA - left adnexa; BB - right
adnexa.
Container labeled
2 - right pelvic lymph node" has 4.0
x 3.0 1.0 cm of tan-yellow fibroadipose tissue which on palpation
and sectioning reveals a previously bisected 3.0 cm partially
fragmented apparent fleshy gray-tan to pink nodule. The specimen is
received after operative consult and touch prep analvsis which is
reported as "adenocarcinoma (reported to Dr.
positive patient
ID)" by Dr.
The nodule is sectioned and entirely submitted in
two cassettes.
Container labeled
3 - left aortic lymph node" has 3.6
x 3.0 x 1.0 cm of tan-yellow fibroadipose tissue fragments which on
palpation and sectioning reveals a previously partially fragmented
1.1 cm tan-pink fleshy nodule. The nodule is entirely submitted in a
single cassette.
Container labeled
4 - right aortic lymph node" has a
2.0 x 1.2 x 0.3 cm portion of tan-yellow fibroadipose tissue which
is entirely submitted in a single cassette.
Container labeled
5 - omentum" has a 42.6 x 15.0 x up
to 1.6 cm sheet of tan-yellow vascularized fibroadipose tissue
grossly consistent with omentum. On palpation and sectioning there
are several thin gray-pink to red fibrous adhesions but no discrete
gross mass lesions. Representative sections submitted in 10
cassettes.
Microscopic Description:
Reviewed are slides labeled
Final Diagnosis
Uterus, cervix, bilateral fallopian tubes and ovaries, hysterectomy
with bilateral saipingo-oophorectomy
Tumor characteristics:
Specimen integrity: Intact, received previously opened.
Histologic type: Papillary serous carcinoma.
Histologic grade: III (high grade).
Tumor site: Endometrial cavity.
Tumor size: 6.2 x 3.5 x 1.0cm.
Myometrial invasion: No unequivocal myometrial invasion identified
in sections examined.
Involvement of cervix: Not identified.
Extent of involvement of other organs: Single microscopic focus of
involvement of the left
ovary (see comment).
Lymphovascular space invasion: Present.
Surgical margin status:
Surgical margins appear free of malignancy in sections examined
Lymph node status:
See below.
Other:
Cervix: No significant histopathologic change.
Endometrium: Inactive pattern.
Myometrium: Leiomyomata; adenomyosis.
Fallopian tubes: No significant histopathologic change.
Ovary, right: No significant histopathologic change.
Stage: pT3a N1
Lymph node, right pelvic, excision:
Metastatic carcinoma involving one of one lymph node (1/1).
Tumor up to 2.0 cm in greatest dimension.
No extracapsular tumor extension identified in sections examined.
Lymph nodes, left aortic:
Six lymph nodes negative for metastatic carcinoma (0/6).
"Lymph node", right aortic:
Benign fibroadipose tissue; no lymph node identified.
Omentum, omentectomy:
Benign fibroadipose tissue consistent with omentum.
No histologic evidence of carcinoma identified in sections
examined. I
CPT:
Comments
Histologic sections demonstrate a poorly differentiated papillary
serous carcinoma involving much of the endometrial cavity. While
grossly suspicious for invasion, no definitive myometrial invasion
is identified in the multiple sections examined. However, within the
left ovary a single microscopic focus of tumor (less than 1 mm) with
associated hemorrhage and necrosis is noted. Though microscopic,
this is consistent with an area of adnexal involvement. Clinical
correlation is recommended.
At the request of the undersigned pathologist, these slides have
been additionally reviewed by Dr. who concurs with the
diagnosis.
This report has been finalized at the
<Sign Out Dr. Signature>
