Page 1 of 4
TCGA-A5-A0G1-01A-PR
Redacted
ICD-0-3
adinocarcinoma, serous NOS
SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT
8441/3
bw
11/22/10
PATH #:
S.ru indometrum
C54.1
A/S:
F
Soc. Sec. No.:
Rec:
Location:
Col:
Pathologist
Assistant:
Attending MD:
Ordering MD:
Copies To:
DIAGNOSIS:
UTERUS (abdominal hysterectomy) :
Endometrial adenocarcinoma, polypoid
-High grade with serous features
-Focal invasion into the very superficial myometrium
-Dense lymphoid infiltrate within tumor
-Cervix negative for carcinoma
Multiple myomas
Adenomyosis
OVARIES AND FALLOPIAN TUBES (resection)
Negative for carcinoma
Thecosis, ovaries
Small fibrothecoma, right ovary
Small dermoid cyst, left ovary
No significant histologic changes, tubes
OMENTUM (biopsies) :
Negative for carcinoma
LYMPH NODES, pelvic, periaortic/precaval (excision):
Negative for carcinoma
RIGHT GUTTER (biopsy) :
Negative for carcinoma
HISTORY: Uterine carcinoma
MICROSCOPIC:
A-L. Omental fat with small foci of fibrosis, few small lymphoid
Suture aggregates, and small foci of reactive mesothelial cell hyperplasia.
(K) No metastatic carcinoma seen
M-FF,00. High grade mullerian adenocarcinoma with serous
solid, comprises the entire endometrial polypoid lesion. The tumor features
other areas show clear cell change ; cytoplasmic material in
small micropapillary, acinar, and fused acinar patterns. Relatively shows
infiltrate tumor cells suggests mucin. A dense 1ymphoid/lymphoplasmacytic some
neither to absolutely exclude vascular/lymphatic invasion making
difficult is intimately associated with the carcinoma it very
invasion is seen At the base of the polypoid lesion there but
depth far less than one- fourth the myometrial thickness.
of tumor into the very superficial myometrium, maximum is focal
endometrium elsewhere is thin but shows focal glandular hyperplasia The
Page 2 of 4
with tubular, cystic, and some ciliated metaplastic glands.
Adenomyosis, focally cystic, and several leiomyomas (submucosal,
intramural, and subserosal) without histologic atypia. Hyalinization
and focal calcification within some myoma profiles. Mild chronic
cervicitis with several mucus cysts, focal microglandular
hyperplasia, and tubal/ciliated metaplasia in occasional
endocervical glands. The cervix, parauterine vessels, adnexae, and
soft tissues appear clear of tumor. Both ovaries show nodular
thecosis, corpora albicantia, a few dystrophic cortical
calcifications, and small cysts. The right ovary contains a small
collagenized fibrothecoma (R) and the left ovary contains a small
mature cystic teratoma/dermoid with respiratory and apocrine type
epithelium, seromucinous glands, and histiocytic reaction in
relation to small cysts that are devoid of an epithelial lining. A
few fibrovascular adhesions are also present on the left ovary.
Minor changes in the tubes include a mild chronic inflammatory cell
infiltrate in the mucosa of the right tube.
GG-MM. Varying degrees and combinations of fatty changee, sinus
histiocytosis, fibrosis, and dystrophic calcification in lymph node
profiles. Lymph nodes are present in all specimens. No metastatic
carcinoma is seen with routine or keratin stains.
NN. Fibroadipose tissue. No lymph node. No tumor seen.
GROSS:
1:
OMENTUM NO.1
Labeled "omentum no. 1" and received in formalin is a 5 X 3.5 X 1.5
cm yellow-tan multilobulated adipose tissue segment. No gross
lesions are identified on serial section.
A,B. Representative sections
2:
OMENTUM NO.2 2
Labeled "omentum no. 2" and received in formalin is an 8.5 X 5.5 X
1.5 cm yellow-tan multilobulated adipose tissue segment. No gross
lesions are identified on serial section.
C,D. Representative sections
3:
OMENTUM NO.3
Labeled "omentum no. 3" and received in formalin is a 6 X 4.5 X 1 cm
yellow-tan multilobulated adipose tissue segment. No gross lesions
are identified on serial section.
E,F. Representative sections
4 :
OMENTUM NO.4
Labeled "omentum no. 4" and received in formalin is a 10 X 5 X 0.8 cm
yellow-tan multilobulated roughly triangular segment of adipose
tissue. No gross lesions are identified on serial section.
G,H Representative sections
5:
OMENTUM NO.5
Labeled "omentum no. 5" and received in formalin is a 10.5 X 4.5 X
1.5 cm yellow-tan multilobulated adipose tissue segment. No gross
lesions are identified on serial section.
I,J. Representative sections
6:
OMENTUM NO. 6
Labeled "omentum no. 6" and received in formalin is a 5.5 X 4.5 X 1.5
cm yellow-tan multilobulated adipose tissue segment. No gross
lesions are identified on serial section.
Page 3 of 4
K,L. Representative sections
7: UTERUS, BOTH TUBES AND OVARIES
Labeled "uterus, bilateral tubes and ovaries", received in the
Operating Room and subsequently fixed in formalin, is a uterus with
attached cervix and bilateral tubes and ovaries weighing 190 grams.
The uterus measures 8.5 cm from ectocervix to fundus, 8 cm from
cornu to cornu, and 5 cm anterior to posterior. The right fallopian
tube measures 5 cm in length and 0.3 to 0.6 cm in diameter. The
serosal surface of the fallopian tube is pink-tan and unremarkable.
The right ovary measures 2.8 X 1.5 X 0.6 cm and has a yellow-tan
cerebriform surface with a 0.5 X 0.5 X 0.3 cm tan-white firm nodule.
Sectioning reveals multiple corpora albicantia, No areas suggest
tumor. The left fallopian tube measures 6.5 cm in length and 0.3
reveals a pinpoint lumen and a 0.2 to 0.3 cm thick wall. The left
0.6 cm in diameter. The serosal surface is unremarkable. Sectioning to
ovary measures 2 X 1.3 X 1 cm and has a yellow-tan, slightly
corrugated surface. Cut section shows a 0.8 cyst with a smooth
lining. No areas suggest tumor. The serosal surface of the uterus
is distorted by multiple subserosal leiomyomata ranging from 1.5 to
4.5 X 4 cm in diameter. The cervix measures 2.5 cm in length and
3.5 cm in diameter at the ectocervix. The external os measures 0.7
0.5 cm. The ectocervical mucosa is pale tan-pink with focal
hemorrhage around the external os. The endocervical canal measures
2.5 cm in length and is lined by a pink-tan mucosa with multiple
nabothian cysts. The endometrial cavity measures 3.5 X 1.5 x 1
and is distorted by multiple leiomyomata, one of which is submucosal cm
and 2.6 cm in diameter; it has a tan-white whorled cut surface
without necrosis or degeneration. There are more than five
intramural leiomyomata ranging from 0.2 X 0.2 X 0.2 cm to 2.5 X 2.5
2.5 cm, all with whorled tan-white cut surfaces. Arising from the
posterior endometrium high in the fundus is a 2 X 1.5 X 0.8
polypoid pink-tan tumor with pink granular surface. Myometrial cm
invasion is not apparent on cut section. The uninvolved endometrium
measures up to 0.1 cm in thickness. The myometrium ranges from 0.7
to 1.2 cm in thickness. No other gross lesions are identified. The
submitted. entire endometrial tumor and additional representative sections are
M.
Anterior cervix - 1
N.
Posterior cervix - 1
O.
Cross section, upper endocervical canal
P.
Parametrial vessels, right - 4
Q.
Parametrial vessels, left - 4
R.
Right ovary - 2
S.
Right fallopian tube - 2
T.
Left ovary - 2
U.
Left fallopian tube - 2
V.
Non-tumorous endomyometrium - 2
W.
Non-tumorous endomyometrium - 1
X.
Submucosal leiomyoma - 1
Y.
Intramural leiomyoma - 1
z.
Subserosal leiomyoma
DD. AA-CC. Polypoid tumor with underlying uterine wall - 1 each )
Polypoid tumor - 1
EE,FF. Uterine wall beneath "DD" - 1 each
) All
)
8: LEFT PELVIC
4.5 focally red hemorrhagic soft tissues measuring 2.5 X 1.5 x 1 cm and
Labeled "left pelvic" and received in formalin are two yellow-
identified. The nodes are all embedded.
X X 1 cm. Four lymph nodes are identified. No lesions are
GG. Three lymph nodes, bisected - 6
HH. One lymph node 3
Page 4 of 4
9:
RIGHT PELVIC
Labeled "right pelvic" and received in formalin are four tan-yellow
focally hemorrhagic multilobulated adipose tissue fragments ranging
from 1.5 X 1 X 0.5 cm to 4.5 X 2 X 0.5 cm and aggregating to 6 X 2.5
X 0.6 cm. Six lymph nodes are identified ranging from 0.2 X 0.2 X
0.2 cm to 3.5 X 1.8 X 0.6 cm. The specimen is all embedded.
II.
Three possible lymph nodes - 3
JJ,KK. One bisected lymph node
LL.
Two lymph nodes, fatty tissue
10: PRECAVAL/PERIAORTIC
Labeled "periaortic canal" and received in formalin is a 2.5 X 2 X
1.5 cm yellow-tan multilobulated adipose tissue containing a 3 X 1.5
X 0.6 cm possible lymph node. The specimen is all embedded.
MM. One lymph node, bisected - 2
Remaining adipose tissue - 2
11: RIGHT GUTTER
Labeled "right gutter" and received in formalin is a 0.8 X 0,7 X 0.4
cm pink-tan tissue fragment. The specimen is bisected.
NN. All embedded - 2
Gross dictated by
ADDITIONAL SECTIONS:
OO. Remainder of left ovary - 2
OPERATIVE CONSULT (GROSS) :
Carcinoma, endometrium
Myomas
Diagnosis of
on outside biopsy
Special Studies: selected steps, keratin
SNOMED Code:
See Also: none
DATE
rathologist
This report has been reviewed and signed electronically by
M. D., , the pathologist of record.
Date Finalled:
Criteria
Yes
No
Diagnosis Discrepancy
Primary Tumor Site Discrepancy
HIPAA Discrepancy
Prior Malignancy History
Dual/Synchronous Primary Noted
Case is (circle):
QUALIFIED
DISQUALITIED
Reviewer Inisials'
Date Reviewed
