Sex: Female
D.O.B.:
MRN #
Criteria
Yes
Ref Ph,
Diagnosis Discrepancy
Primary Tumor Site Discrepancy
HIPAA Discrepancy
Prior Malignancy History
Dual/Synchronous Primary Noted
Case (circle):
QUALIFIED
DISQUALIFIED
Collected:
Reviewer Initials
reviewed:
Received:
Kml
lwa/3/11
attill
Reported:
SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT
DIAGNOSIS,
DIAGNOSIS: Uterus, cervix, bilateral ovaries and fallopian tubes, hysterectomy with bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy:
Adenocarcinoma of the endometrium.
Tumor Characteristics:
1. Histologic type: Endometrioid type.
2. 3. Tumor site: Tumor present within the uterine corpus; no involvement of lower uterine segment or uterine cervix identified.
Histologic grade: 3.
4. Tumor size: 5.0 cm in greatest dimension.
5. Myometrial invasion: Tumor shows invasion of less than half of the myometrial thickness.
7. 6. Lymphovascular Greatest depth space invasion: No definite foci of lymphovascular space invasion identified in sections examined - see specimen D (right pelvic
of tumor invasion: 0.5 cm into an area of myometrium that is 4.3 cm in thickness:
lymph nodes).
Surgical Margin Status:
1 No tumor identified at the cervical inked margins.
2. No tumor identified within the bilateral parametrial tissue.
Other:
ICA03
1. Other significant findings:
Myometrium: Foci of adenomyosis.
adino carcinoma endometrioid, NOS 8380/3
Uterine serosa: No neoplasm identified.
Bilateral ovaries: No neoplasm identified.
Site: indometrium C54.1
Bilateral fallopian tubes: No neoplasm identified.
be
2. AJCC Cancer Staging of the endometrium: T1a, N1.
9/3/11
B. Lymph nodes, right paraaortic, excision:
No neoplasm identified in three lymph nodes.
C. Lymph nodes, left paraaortic, excision:
No neoplasm identified in four lymph nodes.
D. Lymph node, right pelvic, excision:
Microscopic focus of metastatic carcinoma involving 1 of 11 lymph nodes (confirmed with pancytokeratin immunostain).
E. Lymph nodes, left pelvic, excision:
No neoplasm identified in seven lymph nodes.
Electronic Signature:
CLINICAL HISTORY:
Preoperative Diagnosis:
Postoperative Diagnosis:
Symptoms/Radiologic Findings:
UUID:4AD4E8D1-5DA7-4134-A0C0-0AF1C3A8BCD4
CGA-AJ-A20L-01A-PR
Redacted
SPECIMENS:
A. Uterus, cervix, bilateral tubes and ovaries
B. Right paraaortic lymph node
C. Left paraaortic lymph node
D. Right pelvic lymph node
E. Left pelvic lymph node
GROSS DESCRIPTION:
The specimen is received in five formalin filled containers labeled with the patient's name
A. 8.0 Container in A is additionally labeled 'uterus cervix BSO' and contains a 250.5 g uterus with attached cervix received with attached bilateral adnexa. The
surfaced cm length x 5.0x4.5 cm uterine corpus is surfaced by pink-tan glistening serosa, The 4.0 cm in length x 2.5 x 2.4 cm uterine cervix is
normal The endocervical canal is yellow-tan and mucoid with the usual folds. Filling the endometrial canal is a 5.0 x 4.0 x 2.0 cm pink-tan friable en No
by pink-tan, glistening ectocervical mucosa and features a central 1.0 cm patent os. The parametrial soft tissues are inked and taken partially face,
additional appearing endometrium is identified. On section, this mass extends 0.6 cm into a 4.0 cm thick pink-tan, fibrous, trabeculated myometrium. mass. No
myometrial nodules or lesions are identified.
0.9 The right The fimbriated fallopian tube is 4.5 cm in length and ranging from 0.4 to 0.7 cm in diameter. The attached yellow-tan lobulated is
inner cm. cut surface is yellow-tan and fibrous with two uniloculated subcortical cysts, 0.3 and 0.4 cm in greatest dimension. Each ovary features 2.5x a smooth x
lining and contains clear, watery fluid.
the ovary cut aurfare is for a 2.3 cm multiloculated paraovarian cyst. The cysts feature smooth inner linings and contain yellow-tan fluid. The lobulated
The left is fimbriated remarkable fallopian tube is 5.0 cm in length and ranges from 0.5 to 0.7 cm in diameter. The attached 5.0 x 0.7 cm yellow-tan
labeled wallow-tan and fibrous with few gray-white corpora albicantia. Representative sections are submitted in cassettes A1 through remainder 19
of
signated as follows: A1 right parametrium, en face; A2 - left parametrium, en face; A3 - anterior endoectocervix; A4
fallopian A16 (notched ends adjoin); A13 and 14 - full thickness posterior endomyometrium, bisected (notched ends adjoin); A15 - right
endomyometrium, bisected full thickness anterior endomyometrium, bisected (notched ends adjoin); A11 and 12 - full thickness posterior
(notched ends adjoin); MO - anterior A9 and lower 10 - uterine segment; A6 - posterior lower uterine segment; A7 and 8 full thickness anterior endomyometrium, bisected - posterior
tube; right ovary; A17 - left fallopian tube; A18 - left paraovarian cyst; A19 - left ovary.
Additionally, a yellow, green, and blue cassette are submitted for genomics research each labeled
palpation, three firm fatty possible lymph nodes are identified ranging from 0.4 up to 3.0 cm in greatest dimension. They are entirely submitted tissue. in
B. Container B is additionally labeled 'right paraaortic lymph node and contains a 5.8 3.4 x 1.5 cm aggregate of yellow tan fibrofatty soft On
cassettes B1 through 3 labeled
lymph node.
designated as follows: B1 two whole possible lymph nodes; B2 and 3 - one whole possible trisected
cassettes C1 through fatty possible lymph nodes are identified ranging from 1.0 up to 3.2 cm in greatest dimension. They are entirely fibrofatty submitted soft tissue.
palpation, C. Container four C firm is additionally labeled 'left paraaortic lymph node' and contains a 5.0x4.0x 1.5 cm aggregate of yellow-tan On
node; C3 and 4 - one whole possidio INSELIED designated lymph node. as follows: C1 two whole possible lymph nodes; C2 - one whole possible bisected in tymph
4 labeled
cassettes palpation, D1 multiple firm fatty possible lvmph nodes are identified ranging from 0.3 up to 4.0 cm in greatest dimension. They fibrofatty are entirely soft tissue. submitted On in
D. Container D is additionally labeled 'right pelvic lymph node and contains a 9.0 x 5.5 x 4.0 cm aggregate of yellow-tan
through 10 labeled
whole D3 and 4 - one possible bisected lympi node in each cassette; D5 through 7 - one whole possible lymph node, - quadrisected; possible D8 through lymph nodes: 10 one
whole designated as follows: D1 four whole possible lymph nodes; D2 three whole
possible lymph node, quadrisected.
cassettes E1 multiple firm fatty possible lymph nodes are identified ranging from 0.6 up to 3.3 cm in greatest dimension. They fibrofatty are entirely soft tissue. submitted On in
palpation, E. Container E is additionally labeled "left pelvic lymph node' and contains an 8.3 x 6.0 x 4.0 cm aggregate of yellow-tan
through 8 labeled
lymph
node; E3 node. and 4 - one whole possible lymph node; E5 and 6 - one whole possible bisected lymph node; E7 and 8 - one whole possible bisected lymph
designated as follows: E1 - three whole possible lymph nodes; E2 one whole possible bisected
