Sex: Female
D.O.B.:
MRN #:
Ref Phye
SPECIMEN INFORMATION
Collected
Accession
Received:
Acct / Reg
Reported
SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT
DIAGNOSIS
DIAGNOSIS:
A. Portion of omentum, excision:
Criteria
Metastatic high grade adenocarcinoma, diffusely infiltrative.
Yes
No
Diagnosis Discremency
Frozen section diagnosis confirmed.
Primary Tumor Sita Discrepancy
H:PAA Discrepancy
Prior Malignancy History
B. Omentum, excision:
Cus:/Synchron.ous Princ Noted
Diffusely infiltrative high grade adenocarcinoma
indicitcle)
QUALIFIED
DISQUALIFIED
Date Review
C. Uterus, right adnexa, hysterectomy with right salpingoophorectomy:
he 4/19/11
Tumor Characteristics:
1. Histologic type
cardingers
2. Histologic grade: 3.
3. Tumor site:
4. Tumor size. Tumor microscopic in its originating source measuring approximately 1.0 cm in lateral dimension.
5. Myometrial Invasion: Tumor focally extends 0.3 cm into a 1.1 cm thick myometrium.
6. Involvement of cervix: Cervix not removed.
7. Extent of Involvement of other organs: Tumor extends into the right ovary as well as within the parametrial tissue as well as extensively along the
uterine serosa.
8. Lymphovascular space Invasion: Not definitively identified.
Surgical Margin Status:
Tumor does not definitively extend to margins of resection, however, is metastatic multifocally.
ICD-0-3
Lymph Node Status:
No lymph nodes removed.
Other:
Carcinoma serons NOS 8441/3
1. Other significant findings:
Site indometrium C54.1
a. Background endometrium with predominantly atrophic features.
b. Right fallopian tube without significant pathologic abnormality.
4/19/11
2. pTNM stage: pT3a NX (FIGO IIIA).
her
Electronic Signature:
COMMENTS:
Appropriately controlled Immunohistochemical stains for WT-1 and P53 performed on blocks C10 and C13 show positve staining for p53 with no to only
focal nuclear staining for WT1. This, along with patient age and background atrophic endometrium are consistent with a serous carcinoma of endometrial
origin.
CI INICAI INFORMATION
CLINICAL HISTORY:
Preoperative Diagnosis: Adenocarcinoma on Pap, thickened endometrium. Blopsy not possible - cervical stenosis
Postoperative Diagnosis:
Symptoms/Radiologic Findings:
SPECIMENS:
UUID: 38EB6233-9777-4640-A896-26D16A9DBD8R
A. Portion of omentum with frozen section
TCGA-AJ-A23N-01A-PR
Redacted
B. Omentum
C. Uterus, right tube and ovary
SPECIMEN DATA
GROSS DESCRIPTION:
The specimen is received in three containers labeled with the patient's name,
On
Container gray-white A is additionally tumor nodules labeled are identified, "portion of 2.0 omentum" and 3.0 cm and in contains greatest a dimension. 10.0x5.0x3.0 A section cm, yellow-tan, is submitted finely for are frozen topulated submitted section fibrofatty in with cassettes the soft residual tissue. A2-3. entirely section,
two
Additional representative sections
Additionally, a yellow cassette is submitted for genomics research labeled
resubmitted for permanent section in cassette A1 labeled
labeled "#2" and contains an 18.0 x 8.5 x 3.5 cm, yellow-tan, finely lobulated are submitted fibrofatty in soft cassettes tissue consistent B1-4 labeled with omentum.
Container Sectioning B reveais is additionally gray-white tumor up to 6.0 cm in greatest dimension. Representative sections
labeled "uterus. right tube and ovary" and contains a 41.8 gm supracervical from 0.5 to 1.0 hysterectomy cm) and right specimen ovary (3.0 comprised x 1.5 x of 1.3 uterine cm). The
Container (5.6 C cm is additionally in length by 3.5 x 3.5 cm), right fallopian tube (6.0 cm In length soft tissue and is ranging inked and taken en face. The endometrium is pink-tan with and lush
with corpus uterine an corpus average is thickness surfaced by of 0.3 pink-tan, cm. Discrete shaggy serosa. Invasive The lesions Identified. parametrial are not The identified. ovary is The sectioned surrounding to reveal myometrium a yellow-tan is pink-tan fibrous cut and surface fibrous with a an gray-white average
thickness albicans of 1.1 cm. and a No 0.6 myometrial cm cystic nodules ovary. The or lesions cyst features are a arey-white papillary follows: excrescence 1 right parametrium, and contains en clear, face; watery 2 left parametrium, finid. Representative en face; 3
corpus are 4 posterior C1-16 labeled lower uterine segment; 5-6 full thickness anterior endomyometrium; tube; 13-16 ovary, 7 remainder entirely.
'asignated as of anterior endometrium; 8-9
sections submitted in cassettes
anterior full thickness lower posterior uterine segment; endomyometrium; 10-11 remainder of posterior endometrium; 12 fallopian
INTRA-OPERATIVE CONSULTATION:
FROZEN SECTION DIAGNOSIS: Part A - Metastatic adenocarcinoma per Dr
