SURGICAL PATHOLOGY:
PROCEDURE DATE:
RECEIVED DATE:
REPORT DATE:
Criteria
Yes
No
Diagnosis Discrepancy
Primary Tumor Site Discrepancy
COPY TO:
HIPAA Discrepancy
Prior Malignancy History
&
Dual/Synchronous PrimaryNated
4
Case (circle): QUALIFIED / DISQUALIFIED
Date/Reviewed:
Kml Reviewer Initials 10/31/11
Pre-Op Diagnosis
Endometrial cancer
Post-Op Diagnosis
Same as above
Clinical History
Nothing indicated
ICD-0-3
Gross Description:
(8380/3)
Five parts
Container labeled
adenocaccinoma, 8441/3 mixed indometrioid
1 - right pelvic lymph node"
has 6.0 x 4.5 x 1.6 cm of tan-yellow fibroadipose tissue fragments
and serous code to highest 8441/3
which on palpation and sectioning reveal a few poorly defined
pink-yellow nodules up to 2.0 cm. The largest nodules are bisected
and submitted labeled A-B. Whole smaller nodules are submitted
Site indometrium 1541
labeled C.
Container labeled
2 - left pelvic lymph node" has
be
4.7 x 4.0 x 2.0 cm of tan-yellow fibroadipose tissue fragments which
1/4/12
on palpation and sectioning reveal a few poorly defined pink-yellow
nodules up to 2.1 cm. The largest nodule is bisected and submitted
labeled A. Whole smaller nodules are submitted labeled B-C.
Container labeled "
3 - right aortic lymph node"
has 3.2 x 2.0 x 1.0 cm of tan-yellow fibroadipose tissue fragments
which on palpation and sectioning reveal a few poorly defined
pink-yellow nodules up to 1.9 cm. The nodules are entirely submitted
in two cassettes.
Container labeled
4 - left aortic lymph node" has
page lof4
4.0 x 3.1 x 1.1 cm of tan-yellow fibroadipose tissue fragments which
on palpation and sectioning reveal a few poorly defined pink-yellow
nodules up to 1.6 cm. The largest nodule is bisected and submitted
TCGA-AJ-A3EK-B1A-PR
labeled A. Whole smaller nodules are submitted labeled B.
Container labeled
5 - uterus, cervix, tubes and
ovaries" has a previously laterally opened moderately distorted
uterus with attached cervix and bilateral adnexa. The uterus and
cervix together weigh 96 grams and on reconstruction measure
approximately 9.1 x 5.6 X 4.2 cm. The cervix has a wrinkled
tan-pink ectocervical mucosa. The os is patent. The uterine canal
sounds to a depth of 6.5 cm. The endocervical canal is lined by
trabeculated tan-pink mucosa. The uterine serosa is smooth and
tan-pink. The myometrium measures up to 1.6 cm and is tan-pink and
fibrotic. Virtually the entire endometrial canal is occupied by a
friable gray-tan to pink papilliferous plaque-like lesion occupying
both the anterior and posterior aspects extending to both lateral
aspects and the fundus, as well as into the lower uterine segment.
This occupies an area of approximately 8.8 x 3.5 cm. On the
posterior aspect this measures up to 0.7 cm in thickness and grossly
appears to focally extend into the wall. In the right lateral aspect
the lesion grossly appears to focally extend to within 1.1 cm of the
outer surface margin. The parametrial soft tissue on each side shows
no nodularity or gross lesion. The left fallopian tube measures 6.1
x 0.5 x 0.5 cm. The right fallopian tube measures 5.9 x 0.5 x 0.5
cm. Each has a smooth tan-pink serosa with a tan-pink wall and a
pinpoint lumen. The left ovary measures 3.1 x 2.1 x 1.6 cm and has a
lobular tan-yellow outer surface with a mottled tan-gray fibrotic
cut surface. The right ovary measures 3.6 x 1.6 x 1.0 cm and has a
lobular tan-yellow outer surface with a mottled tan-gray to pink
fibrotic cut surface. Also received in the same container is a 2.1 x
1.5 x 0.8 cm aggregate of friable granular gray-tan to pink apparent
lesional tissue. Also
container are two tissue
cassettes each labeled
Representative sections
are submitted labeled as follows: A - anterior cervix: B - posterior
cervix; C - lower uterine segment shaved posterior serosa; D-F -
anterior endomyometrium; G-K - posterior endomyometrium; L-M - left
lateral endomyometrium; N-O - right lateral endomyometrium; P-S -
fundic endomyometrium; T - left parametrium; U - right parametrium;
V - left adnexa; W - right adnexa; X - separate lesional tissue
fragments.
Microscopic Description:
See diagnosis.
Final Diagnosis
Lymph nodes, right pelvic area, regional dissection:
Number of lymph nodes identified: 5
Number of lymph nodes demonstrating metastatic malignancy: o (0/5)
Lymph nodes, left pelvic area, regional dissection:
Number of lymph nodes identified: 5
Number of lymph nodes containing metastatic malignancy: o (0/5)
Lymph nodes, right aortic area, regional dissection:
Number of lymph nodes identified: 2
Number of lymph nodes containing metastatic malignancy: o (0/2)
Lymph nodes, left aortic area, regional dissection:
Number of lymph nodes identified: 7
page 2 of 4
Number of lymph nodes containing metastatic malignancy: o (0/7)
Uterus, bilateral fallopian tubes and ovaries, hysterectomy and
bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy:
Endometrial adenocarcinoma
Tumor characteristics:
Histologic type: Endometrioid endometrial adenocarcinoma with
serous areas.
Histologic grade: Grade 3
Tumor site: Entire endometrial cavity
Tumor size: Approximately 8.8 x 3.5 cm as measured grossly
Myometrial invasion: Focally present, invading approximately 0.3
cm into a 1.6 cm thick
myometrium (much less than 50% of the myometrial thickness)
Extent of tumor: Extends into lower uterine segment, but does not
involve endocervical
mucosa or stroma.
Involvement of other organs: Not identified
Lymphovascular space invasion: Present (see comment)
Parametrial tissues: Right and left are both negative
Other:
Ectocervix:
Negative for viral changes, dysplasia and malignancy.
Endocervix:
Intense chronic endocervicitis.
Negative for glandular dysplasia.
Endometrium:
See above.
Myometrium:
See above.
Serosa:
Negative for endometriosis and malignancy.
Ovaries:
Negative for endometriosis and malignancy.
Fallopian tubes:
Negative for endometriosis and malignancy.
Stage:
pT1a (FIGO IA) NO
PAS 9
CPT:
Comments
The amount of carcinoma is impressive. Much of this is present as
sheets of tumor and overt back-to-back oval and tubular glands along
with nondescript areas of cribriforming. There are areas of (benign)
squamoid metaplasia, as expected in endometrioid forms of
endometrial adenocarcinoma. Because of the findings noted below,
the grade assigned is a 3.
In addition, within the myometrium there are multiple areas of
lymphovascular space invasion identified, best seen in sections 5J
and K. These are discrete nests of tumor surrounded by what appear
to be endothelial-lined spaces. One of these nests is within vessels
located approximately 5 mm (0.5 cm) from the serosal surface.
Finally, in order to more fully assess the presence of serous
differentiation, immunohistochemical stains are performed on block
50, with the following results:
P53: positive (extensively).
ER: positive
WT1: negative
The features are most consistent with an endometrioid adenocarcinoma
with presence of serous differentiation.
page 3 of 4
At my request, the case has also been reviewed by Dr.
who concurs with the findings.
This test has been finalized at the
This test was developed ite performance characteristics
determined by
It has not been
cleared or approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration. The
FDA has determined that such clearance or approval is not necessary.
This test is used for clinical purposes. It should not be regarded
as investigational or for research. This laboratory is certified
under the Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments of 1988
(CLIA-88) as qualified to perform high complexity clinical
laboratory testing.
page 4 of 4
<Sign Out Dr. Signature>
