Criteria
Diagnosis Discrepancy
Yes
NO
Primary Tumor Site Discrepancy
HIPAA Discrepancy
Prior Malignancy History
Dual/Synchronous PrimaryNoted
Case is (circle):
QUALIFIED
Reviewer (Initials
DISQUALIFIED
unit
Date Rewiewed:
19/3/11
19/1/11
Sex: Female
D.O.B.:
MRN #:
Ref Phy
SPECIMEN INFORMATION
Collected: !
Accession #
Received
Acct / Reg #:
Reported:
SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT
DIAGNOSIS
DIAGNOSIS:
A. Right ovary and fallopian tube, salpingo-oophorectomy:
Ovary and fallopian tube without significant pathologic abnormality.
ICD-0-3
B. Left ovary and fallopian tube, salpingo-oophorectomy:
Ovarian tissue without significant pathologic abnormality.
Fallopian tube tissue not identified.
carcinoma (papillary)serous NOS 8441/3
C. Uterus, hysterectomy:
Site: Endometrium C54.1
Tumor Characteristics:
1. Histologic type: Papillary serous carcinoma.
he
2. Histologic grade: High grade.
4/3/11
3. Tumor site: Endometrium,
4. Tumor size: 3.2x27cm.
5. Myometrial invasion: Tumor extends 0.6 cm into a 1.4 cm thick myometrium, as measured microscopically (less than one-half).
6. involvement of cervix: Tumor focally present within endocervical mucosa, as well as within stromal tissue.
7. Extent of involvement of other organs: Not identified.
8. Lymphovascular space Invasion: Not identified.
Surgical Margin Status:
1. Margins uninvolved: Cervix, serosa, bilateral parametria.
Lymph Node Status:
1. See below.
Other:
1. pTNM stage: pT2, NO (FIGO: ii).
D. Right external iliac lymph nodes, excision:
Three lymph nodes, negative for metastatic disease
E. Right obturator tymph nodes, excision:
Eight tymph nodes, negative for metastatic disease.
F. Right lower periaortic and common lymph nodes, excision:
Six lymph nodes, negative for metastatic disease.
G. Left external iltac lymph nodes, excision:
Two lymph nodes, negative for metastatic disease
H. Left obturator lymph nodes, excision
Seven lymph nodes, negative for metastatic disease.
1
Left lower periaortic and common lymph nodes, excision:
Seven lymph nodes. negative for metastatic disease
J. Omentum
Negative for malignancy.
UUID:
TCGA-AJ-A2QM-01A-PR
Redacted
CLINICAL INFORMATION
CLINICAL HISTORY:
Preoperative Diagnosis: Serous carcinoma of the endometrium
Postoperative Diagnosis:
Symptoms/Radiologic Findings:
SPECIMENS:
A. Right ovary and tube
B. Left ovary and tube
C. Uterus and cervix
D. Right external iliac
E. Right obturator
F. Right lower periaortic and common
G. Left external iliac
H. Left obturator
1. Left lower periaortic and common
J. Omentum
SPECIMEN DATA
GROSS DESCRIPTION:
A. The specimen is received labeled
jht ovary and tube. The specimen consists of an ovary with attached fallopian tube. The ovary
measures cm. The surface IS yellow to gray-tan. On sectioning, the cut surface is yellow-gray and reveals corpus albicans measuring up
to 0.5 cm identified. There are no lesions grossly identified. The attached fallopian tube measures 3.6 cm in length and 0.2 cm in diameter, and the
surface is gray-tan. On sectioning, there is no material or lesions Identified within the lumen. The fallopian tube appears grossly unremarkable.
Representative sections are submitted in cassettes labeled
IS follows: ovary in total -- 1-2; representative fattopian tube - 3.
B. The specimen is received labeled
left ovary and tube. The specimen consists of an ovary measuring 3.0 x 1.0 x 0.5 cm. The surface is
gray-tan On sectioning there is corpus albicans Identified measuring up to 0.5 cm. There are no lesions grossly identified. The fallopian tube segment is
not grossly identified. The ovary is entirely submitted in two cassettes labeled
B1-2
C. The specimen is received labeled
terus and cervix. The specimen consists of a previously bisected uterus with attached cervix. The
uterus measures 4.5 x 4.5 x 3.2 cm and weighs 46 gm. The serosal surface of the uterus is gray to brown-tan. Sections from the parametrium have been
taken. The cervix measures 3.5 cm in length and 2.5 cm in diameter. The exocervix is gray-tan to brown-tan with hemorrhage. The endocervical canal is
light tan and reveals normal mucosa) folds. There are no lesions identified grossly. The endometrial cavity measures 3.5 cm in length and 3.5 cm in
diameter and reveals a gray-tan, lobular mass measuring 3.2 x 2.7 cm that is within 0.4 cm of the lower uterine segment. On sectioning, the mass
extends into the underlying myometrium approximately 0.7 cm into a 1.4 cm thick myometrium. The myometrium is gray-tan and trabecular and
there
are no lesions grossly identified. Received with the specimen are three cassettes, one green. one yellow and one blue, labeled
with the
yellow additionally labeled -16, the green additionally labeled -17, and the blue additionally labeled -18. Representative sections are submitted in
cassettes labeled
as
follows: anterior cervix posterior cervix - 2; full thickness sections from the lesion - 3-7; lower uterine segment
- 8; left parametrium - 9; rigm parametrium - 10.
D. The specimen is received labelec
it external iliac. The specimen consists of a portion of fibroadipose tissue measuring 7.5 4.0
1.0 cm. Sectioning reveals three probable lymph nodes that measure from 0.6 to 2.0 cm in greatest dimension. The lymph nodes are entirely submitted
in cassettes
t, as follows: one probable node - 1; one probable bisected - 2-3; one probable node bisected - 4-5.
E. The specimen is received labeled 1.
right obturator. The specimen consists of a portion of fibroadipose tissue measuring 4.5 x 3.5 x 1.0
cm Sectioning reveals eight probable lympn nodes that measure from 0.5 to 1.8 cm. The lymph nodes are entirely submitted in cassettes 39067E,
$ follows: one probable node bisected - 1; three probable nodes - 2; one probable node bisected - 3; two probable nodes - 4: one probable
node bisected - 5; one probable lymph node bisected - 6.
F. The specimen is received labeled
light lower periaortic and common, The specimen consists of portion of fibroadipose tissue, 3.5x2.0
x 0.6 cm. Sectioning reveals six probable lymph nodes that measure from 0.3 to 1.6 cm. The lymph nodes are entirely submitted in cassettes. labeled
est, as follows: three probable nodes - 1; one probable lymph node, bisected - 2; one probable lymph node, bisected - 3; one probable lymph
subscted - 4.
G. The specimen is received labeled with the patient's name,
left external iliac. The specimen consists of a portion of fibroadipose tissue
measuring
5.2
x
3.5
x
0.9
cm. Section raveate turn arrhable tymph nodes that measure 1.5 and 3.0 cm in greatest dimension. The lymph nodes are
entirely submitted in cassettes labele
allows: one probable node bisected - 1; one probable node trisected - 2-4.
H. The specimen is received labelec
t obturator. The specimen consists of a portion of fibroadipose tissue measuring 5.2 x 4.5 x 1 5 cm.
Sectioning reveals seven probable lymph nodes that measure from 0.7 to 1.8 cm. The lymph nodes are entirely submitted in casset
4 as
follows: one probable node, bisected - 1; three probable nodes - 2; one probable node, bisected - 3; one probable lymph, bisected one probable
lymph node, bisected - 5-6.
1. The specimen is received labeler
ft lower perlaortic and common. The specimen consists of a portion of fibroadipose tissue measuring
3.5 x 3.0 x 0.5 cm. Sectioning reveals seven possible lymph nodes that measure from 0.5 to 1.5 cm. The lymph nodes are entirely submitted in
reseattas labeled :
is follows: two probable nodes bisected - 1: one probable lvmch node. bisected - 2 two probable nodes - 3: two
probable nodes - 4.
: The specimen is received labelec
ntum. The specimen consists of a piece of yellow-tar lobular fibroadipose ementum tissue that
measures 52.0 x 12.0 x 1.5 cm, On sectioning there are no nodules grossly identified Representative sections are submitted in four casseites labeled
