SURGICAL PATHOLOGY:
PROCEDUF : DATE: RECEIVED DATE: REPORT DATE:
COPY TO:
Criteria In 1/7/12
Diagnosis Discrepancy
Yes
No
Primary Tumor Site Discrepancy
HIPAA Discrepancy
x
Pre-Op Diagnosis
Prior Malignancy History
Endometrial cancer
Dual/Synchronous Primary Noted
Post-Op Diagnosis
QUALIFIED
1mm
DISQUALIFIED
Same as above
Date Reviewed: Main
Clinical History
Nothing indicated
Gross Description:
Five parts
Container labeled
1 - cervix, uterus, bilateral tubes
and ovaries" has a previously laterally opened slightly distorted
uterus with attached cervix and bilateral adnexa. The uterus and
cervix together weigh 50 grams and on reconstruction measure
approximately 7.0 x 4.5 x 3.0 cm. The cervix has a wrinkled
pink-red ectocervical mucosa. The os is patent. The uterine canal is
lined by trabeculated tan-pink mucosa. The uterine serosa is smooth
and tan-pink. The myometrium measures up to 1.3 cm and is gray-pink
and fibrotic. The entire endometrial canal over both the anterior
and posterior aspects as well as the fundus in both lateral aspects
is occupied by a granular gray-tan to pink plaque-like lesion
measuring overall 6.6 x 4.5 cm. This grossly extends into the lower
uterine segment. On sectioning, this has a tan-gray focally
verrucous-appearing fibrotic-appearing cut surface. In the posterior
aspect this measures up to 0.9 cm in thickness and grossly extends
into the myometrium where it is seen at its nearest point 1.0 cm
from the posterior serosa. The small amount of parametrial soft
tissue on each side shows no nodularity or gross lesions. The left
fallopian tube measures 6.0 x 0.5 x 0.5 cm. The right fallopian
tube measures 5.7 x 0.5 x 0.5 cm. Each has a smooth tan-pink serosa
with a tan wall and a pinpoint lumen. The left ovary measures 1.2 x
0.9 x 0.7 cm and has a lobular tan-yellow outer surface with a
mottled tan-gray fibrotic cut surface. The right ovary measures 1.6
1CD-0-3
8380/3
8441/3
adenocarcinoma, mixed endometrioid and serous - code to highest
Site: indometruin C54.1
be
1/7/12
:32C3C850-5F65-424E-894C-7584725BBD09
TCGA-AJ-A3NG-01A-PR
Redacted
x 1.1 x 0.9 cm and has a lobular tan-yellow outer surface with a
mottled tan fibrotic cut surface. Also received in the same
container are two tissue cassettes labeled
Representative sections are submitted labeled as follows: A
anterior cervix; B - posterior cervix; C - lower uterine segment
shaved posterior serosa; D-H - anterior endomyometrium; I-N -
posterior endomyometrium; O-P - left lateral endomyometrium; Q-R -
right lateral endomyometrium; S-Y- fundic endomyometrium; Z - left
parametrium; AA - right parametrium; BB - left adnexa; CC - right
adnexa.
Container labeled
2 - right pelvic lymph nodes" has 7.0
x 6.0 x 1.6 cm of tan-yellow fibroadipose tissue fragments which on
palpation and sectioning reveal a few poorly defined pink-yellow
nodules up to 3.0 cm. The largest nodule is bisected and submitted
labeled A-B. Individual nodules are bisected and individually
submitted labeled C-D. Whole smaller nodules are submitted labeled
E.
Container labeled
3 - left pelvic lymph nodes" has 6.5 x
6.0 x 1.5 cm of tan-yellow fibroadipose tissue fragments which on
palpation and sectioning reveal a few poorly defined pink-yellow
nodules up to 3.1 cm. The largest nodule is sectioned and submitted
labeled A-B. Remaining nodules are each bisected and individually
submitted labeled C-E.
Container labeled
4 - right aortic lymph nodes" has 6.0
x 4.5 x 1.3 cm of tan-yellow fibroadipose tissue fragments which on
palpation and sectioning reveal several poorly defined pink-yellow
nodules up to 2.0 cm. The largest nodules are bisected and
individually submitted labeled A-B. Whole smaller nodules are
submitted labeled C.
Container labeled
5 - left common iliac nodes" has 3.0 x
2.2x0.8 cm of tan-yellow fibroadipose tissue fragments which on
palpation and sectioning reveal a single 1.8 cm poorly defined
elongated pink-yellow nodule. The nodule is bisected and entirely
submitted in a single cassette.
Microscopic Description:
Reviewed are slides labeled
Final Diagnosis
Uterus, cervix, bilateral fallopian tubes and ovaries, hysterectomy
with bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy:
Tumor characteristics:
Specimen integrity: Intact, previously opened.
Histologic type: Mixed, with endometrioid and papillary serous
features (see comment).
Histologic grade: Poorly differentiated (grade III).
Tumor site: Endometrial cavity, near entirety.
Tumor size: 6.6 x 4.5 x 0.9 cm.
Myometrial invasion: Present, tumor invades 0.9 cm into a 1.5 cm
thick myometrium
(greater than one-half).
Involvement of cervix: Tumor focally involves endocervical stroma.
Extent of involvement of other organs: Not identified.
Lymphovascular space invasion: No unequivocal lymphovascular space
invasion identified in
sections examined
Surgical margin status:
Surgical margins appear free of malignancy in sections
examined.
Lymph node status:
Number of lymph nodes received: See below.
Number of lymph nodes containing metastatic carcinoma: o
Other:
Leiomyoma.
Bilateral ovaries with changes of atrophy.
Fallopian tubes with no pathologic diagnosis.
Lymph nodes, right pelvic, resection:
Six lymph nodes negative for metastatic carcinoma (0/6).
Lymph nodes, left pelvic, resection:
Four lymph nodes negative for metastatic carcinoma (0/4).
Lymph nodes, right aortic, resection:
Seven lymph nodes negative for metastatic carcinoma (0/7).
Lymph node, left common iliac:
One lymph node negative for metastatic carcinoma (0/1). PAS 9
SPC-A
CPT: 88309, 88307 x 3, 88305
Stage: pT2NO
Comments
The patient's clinical history of endometrial cancer is
prior pathology specimens are available within the :
system for comparative evaluation. Histologic sections aemonstrate a
moderate to poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma demonstrating
predominantly endometrioid type. Focally, however, areas of
papillary serous differentiation are noted. Large areas of solid
growth pattern are seen. These findings are consistent with a poorly
differentiated tumor.
Clinical correlation and correlation with prior pathology is
recommended.
At the request of the undersigned pathologist, these slides have
been additionally reviewed by Dr.
who concurs with the
diagnosis.
This test has been finalized at the
Campus.
Original report signed out by Dr.
ADDENDUM:
Addendum is made to add Stage pT2N0 to the diagnosis.
ADDENDUM DATE:
