Sex: Female
D.O.B.:
MRN #:
Ref Physician
SPECIMENTINF
Collected:
Received:
Reported:
SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT
DIAGNOSIS
DIAGNOSIS:
A. Right ovary and fallopian tube, excision:
Ovary and fallopian tube negative for malignancy.
ICD-0-3
B. Left adnexal tissue, excision:
Soft tissue fragments without evidence of malignancy
carcinoma, serous, NOS
C. Uterus, hysterectomy:
8441/3
Tumor Characteristics:
1. Histologic type: Serous carcinoma.
Site:endometrium
2. Histologic grade: High grade.
3. Tumor site: Endometrium.
4. Tumor size: 4.8 x 4.0 x 3.0 cm.
C54.
5. Myometrial invasion: Tumor extends 1.5 cm into a 2.0 cm thick myometrium (greater than one-half)
6. Involvement of cervix Not identified.
7. Extent of involvement of other organs: None identified.
4-6-12 RD
8. Lymphovascular space invasion: Not identified.
Surgical Margin Status:
1. Margins uninvolved: Uterine serosa, bilateral parametria, cervix.
2. Margins involved: None.
Lymph Node Status:
1. See parts B-H.
Other:
1. Other significant findings: Leiomyomata.
2. pTNM stage: pT1b, NO (FIGO: IB).
UJID: 1271A645-AF29-453E-BEA8-420ECCD0DFD0
D. Right external iliac lymph nodes, excision:
CGA-AJ-A3TW-01A-PR
Redacted
Four lymph nodes, negative for metastatic disease.
E. Right external iliac tymph nodes, excision:
Four lymph nodes, negative for metastatic disease.
E. Right obturator lymph nodes, excision:
Five lymph nodes, negative for metastatic disease.
F. Right common and lower aortic lymph nodes, excision:
One lymph node, negative for metastatic disease.
G. Left external iliac lymph nodes, excision:
Two lymph nodes, negative for metastatic disease.
riteria
Yes
NO
magnosis Discrepancy
H. Left obturator lymph nodes, excision:
'rimary Tomor Site Discrepancy
IPAA Discrepancy
Three lymph nodes, negative for metastatic disease.
nor Malignancy History
Dual/Synchronous Primary Noted
I. Omentum, excision:
3se (circle):
QUALIFIED
DISQUALIFIED
Negative for malignancy.
teneweinitial km
Electronic Signature:
COMMENTS:
Appropriately controlled immunohistochemical stain for p53 performed on block C is diffusely positive consistent with serous carcinoma.
CLINICAL HISTORY:
Preoperative Diagnosis: Poorly differentiated endometrial cancer
Postoperative Diagnosis:
Symptoms/Radiologic Findings:
SPECIMENS:
A. Right ovary and tube
B. Left adnexal tissue
C. Uterus and cervix
D. Right external iliac
E. Right obturator
F. Right common/lower aortic
G. Left external illac
H. Left obturator
1. Omentum
SPECIMEN DATA
GROSS DESCRIPTION:
Specimen is received in nine formalin filled containers labeled with the patient's name
A. Container A is additionally labeled #1 and contains a 2.8 2.1 X 1.4 cm yellow-tan lobulated ovary received with attached paraovarian with multiple soft tissue and
segment uniloculated paratubal cysts up to 0.5 cm in greatest dimension. The cysts feature smooth inner linings and contains yellow-tan serous for focal Sections fibrous
of fimbriated fallopian tube. The fallopian tube is 3.0 cm in length and ranges from 0.4 to 0.6 cm in diameter. It is studded fluid.
through adhesions. The cut surface is yellow-tan fibrous with multiple gray-white corpora albicantia. Representative sections are submitted include
the paraovarian soft tissue reveal a fibrovascular cut surface with no discrete lesions. The surface of the ovary is remarkable in cassettes A1-3
labeled
esignated as follows: 1. Cross sections of fallopian tube to include paratubal cyst; 2 and 3. Sections from ovary to
surface adnesions.
B. Container B is additionally labeled #2 and contains a 2.3 2.0 cm purple-gray rubbery soft tissue sectioned to reveal a yellow-tan fibrovascular
cut surface. No nodules or lesions are identified. Specimen is entirely submitted in cassettes B1 and 2 labeled
C. Container that is surfaced by pink-tan glistening serosa. The 2.8 cm in length by 2.7 x 2.5 cm uterine cervix is partially surfaced the by parametria
C is additionally labeled #3 and contains a 70.4 gram uterus with attached cervix received devoid of adnexa. The 4.5 cm in length pink-tan by 4.0 x
glistening face. The endocervical canal is yellow-tan and mucoid with the usual folds. The endometrium is filled by a 4.8 x 4.0 x cm 1.5 cm into
3.0 cm uterine and focally corpus erythematous ectocervical mucosa and features a central 1.0 cm patent os. The soft tissues margins are inked 3.0 and pink-tan
are taken friable en mass. A scant amount of normal appearing pink-tan glistening endometrium is identified. On section, the tumor invades three well- a
fungating 2.0 thick pink-tan fibrous myometrium. The normal appearing endometrium averages 0.3 cm in thickness. Within the myometrium feature are gray-white
circumscribed whorled and bulging gray-white cut surfaces with no evidence of hemorrhage or necrosis. The largest nodule is focally calcified. Additional nodules or are
cm intramural and subserosal nodules ranging from 0.6 up to 2.0 cm in greatest dimension. These nodules lesions
not identified.
designated as follows: 1. Right parametrium, en face; 2. Left
Representative sections face; 3. are Anterior submitted endoectocervix; in cassettes 4. C1-13 Posterior labeled endoectocervix; 5. Anterior lower uterine segment; 6. Posterior lower uterine include segment; mass; 7. 9-
parametrium, en anterior endomyometrium to include most normal appearing endometrium; 8. Full-thickness anterior endomyometrium to 13. Sections
Full-thickness 11. Full-thickness posterior endomyometrium to include mass and deepest extent of invasion: 12. Whorled nodules and additional each labeled mass;
from largest, focally calcified nodule. Additionally, a yellow, green and blue cassettes are submitted for
research
four Container firm fattu possible lvmph nodes are identified ranging from 1.4 up to 3.0 cm in greatest dimension. They are entirely submitted D3. One whole
D. D is additionally labeled Right external iliac and contains a x 4.3 x 1.5 cm aggregate of yellow-tan fibrofatty soft tissue. in cassettes On palpation, D1-3
labeled
esignated as follows: D1. One whole possible bisected lymph node; D2. Two whole possible lymph nodes:
possible bisected lympn node.
E. is additionally labeled Right obturator and contains a 3.8 x 2.0 cm aggregate of yellow-tan fibrofatty soft tissue. in cassettes On palpation, E1-4 labeled five
firm Container E lymph nodes are identified ranging from 0.1 up to 6.0 cm in greatest dimension. They are entirely submitted sectioned.
fatty possible designated as follows: E1. Four whole possible lymph nodes; E2-4. One whole possible lymph node, serially
labeled Right common/lower aortic and contains a 2.8 1.7 x 0.7 cm yellow-tan fibrofatty soft tissue. in cassette On palpation, F labeled a 3.0
F. cm Container yellow-tan F firm is additionally fatty nodule is identified consistent with possible lymph node. This nodule is trisected and entirely submitted
is additionally labeled Left external iliac and contains a cm aggregate of yellow-tan fibrofatty in cassettes soft tissue. G1-3 labeled On palpation.
G. Two Container firm G possible lymph nodes are identified 0.5 and 3.0 cm in greatest dimension. They are entirely submitted node.
fatty esignated as follows: G1. One whole possible lymph node; G2-3. One whole possible quadrisected lymph
labe'ed Left obturator and contains a 4.4 3.0 x 1.0 cm aggregate of yellow-tan fibrofatty soft tissue. On palpation, three
firm
fattv possible lymph nodes are identified ranging from 0.5 up to 4.5 cm in greatest dimension. They are entirely submitted in cassettes H1-3 labeled
node.
designated as follows: H1. Two possible lymph nodes (one inked and bisected): H2 and 3. One whole possible quadrisected lymph
I. Container / is additionally labeled Omentum and contains a cm yellow-tan finely lobulated fibrofatty soft tissue consistent with
inhaled omentum. Sectioning reveals a greasy cut surface with no discrete nodules or lesions identified. Representative sections are submitted in cassettes 11-4
