UUID: 88641F9B-ACF5-448B-9AC3-8C8E6B1F0724
TCGA-AJ-ASDW-01A-PR
Redacted
ICD-0-3
Sex: Female
exdemotrioid
MRN #:
8380/3
Ref Phy
Sate Endometrium C54.1
In 1/2/13
Received
Reported:
SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT
ADDENDUM REPORT
ADDENDUM REPORT ONE:
Results of immunohistochemical staining for DNA mismatch repair enzyme protein expression:
MLH1: intact
PMS2: intact
MSH2: intact
MSH6: intact
IHC control slides stain appropriately
The immunohistochemical study of DNA mismatch repair protein expression reveals presence of MLH1, MSH2, MSH6 and PMS2 expression in the tumor
(internal controls stain appropriately). The findings do not completely exclude underlying Lynch Syndrome since some mutations may result in intact
protein expression. If there are strong clinical findings suggesting possible Lynch Syndrome, additional MSI by PCR testing is available and can be
ordered on the resection specimen.
Addendum Report Issued Rv:
DIAGNOSIS
DIAGNOSIS:
A. Lymph nodes, left paraaortic; dissection:
Six benign lymph nodes (0/6).
B. Lymph nodes, right paraaortic; dissection:
Seven benign lymph nodes (0/7).
C. Lymph nodes, left pelvic; dissection:
Seven benign lymph nodes (0/7).
D. Lymph nodes, right pelvic; dissection:
Five benign lymph nodes (0/5).
E. Uterus, carvix, and bilateral adnexa; radial hysterectomy and bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy:
Tumor Characteristics:
1. Histologic type: Endometrioid adenocarcinoma.
2. Histologic grade: FIGO grade 2.
3. Tumor site: Endometrium.
4. Tumor size: 5.2 cm in greatest dimension.
5. Myometrial invasion: Not identified.
6. Involvement of cervix: Not identified.
7. Extent of involvement of other organs: Tumor is confined to uterus.
8. Lymphovascular space invasion: Not identified.
Surgical Margin Status:
1. Margins uninvolved: Cervical, parametrial.
3. Margins involved: None.
Lymph Node Status:
1. See parts A-D
Other:
1. Other significant findings:
- Unremarkable ovaries, fallopian tubes, and cervix.
-
Immunohistochemical stains for mismatch repair proteins will be performed and reported in an addendum.
2. pTNM stage: pT1aN0.
CLINICAL INFORMATION
CLINICAL HISTORY:
Preoperative Diagnosis: Endometrial cancer
Postoperative Diagnosis:
Symptoms/Radiologic Findings:
SPECIMENS:
A. Left periaortic lymph node
B. Right periaortic lymph node
C. Left pelvic lymph node
D. Right pelvic lymph node
E. Uterus, cervix, BSO
SPECIMEN
GROSS DESCRIPTION:
A. The first container A is received in formalin labeled with the patient's name
The specimen consists of portion of fibroadipose tissue that
measures 4.5x4.0x2.0 cm. Sectioning reveals six possible lymph nodes that measure from 0.5 to 1.8 cm. The lymph nodes are entirely submitted in
cassettes labeled
as follows: three probable nodes block 1: one probable node bisected in block 2; one probable node bisected in block
3; one probable node DISECTED in blocks 4 and 5.
B. The second container B is received in formalin labeled with the patient's name
The specimen consists of a portion of fibroadipose
tissue that measures 5.5 x 4.0 x 1.0 cm. Sectioning reveals six possible lymph nodes measuring from 0.5 to 1.6 cm. The lymph nodes are entirely
submitted in cassettes labeled
as follows: three probable nodes block 1; one probable node bisected in block 2; one probable node
bisected in block 3; one probable none UNDELIOU in block 4; one probable node bisected in block 5.
C. The third container C is received in formalin labele
left pelvic.' The specimen consists of a portion of fibroadipose tissue that measures
8.9 x 6.5 x 2.5 cm. Sectioning reveals seven possible lymph nodes that measure from 0.5 to 3.5 cm. The lymph nodes are entirely submitted in
cassettes labeled
follows: two probable nodes block 1; two probable nodes block 2; one probable node sectioned in blocks 3 and 4; one
probable node trisected in blocks 5 and 6; one probable node sectioned in blocks 7 through 10.
D. The fourth container D is received in formalin labeled with the patient's name
right pelvic. The specimen consists of a portion of
fibroadipose tissue that measures 7.0 x 6.5 x cm. Sectioning reveals five possible lymph nodes that measure from 0.5 to 3.5 cm. Representative
sections are submitted in cassettes labeled
as follows: one probable node sectioned in blocks 1 and 2; one probable node bisected in
blocks 3 and 4; two probable nodes block 5; one probable nude sectioned in blocks 6 through 9.
E. The fifth container E is received in formalin labeled
The specimen consists of a uterus with attached cervix, attached bilateral adnexa.
The uterus measures 7.5 x 7.5 X 5.2 cm and weighs 139 grams. The serosal surface of the uterus is gray-tan to brown-tan. The serosa has been inked.
Sections from the parametrium have been taken. The cervix is 5.0 cm in length and 2.7 cm in diameter. The ectocervix is gray-tan to brown-tan with
hemorrhage. The endometrial cavity measures 5.0 cm in length and 3.5 cm from cornu to cornu. The lining measures 0.2 cm. There is a gray-brown,
slightly hemorrhagic shaggy exophytic mass measuring 5.2x2.7 cm that comes within 0.5 cm of the lower uterine segment. On sectioning, the mass
extends superficially into the underlying myometrium approximately 0.2 cm into a 1.7 cm thick myometrium. There are no lesions identified. The left
ovary measures 2.5 x 2.0 X 1.5 cm. The surface is yellow to gray-tan. On sectioning, there is corpus albicans measuring up to 0.5 cm. The left fallopian
tube measures 3.5 cm in length and 0.3 cm in diameter. The surface is gray-tan to brown-tan. On sectioning, there is no material or lesions identified.
There is a peritubal cyst measuring 1.0 cm near the fimbriated end containing clear fluid. The right ovary measures 2.7 X 2.0 x 1.2 cm. The surface is
yellow to gray-tan. On sectioning, there are corpus albicans identified measuring up to 0.3 cm. The right fallopian tube measures 3.2 cm in length and
0,3 cm in diameter. The surface is gray-tan to brown-tan. On sectioning, there is no material or lesions identified within the lumen. The fallopian tube
appears grossly unremarkable. Received with the specimen are three cassettes, one yellow, one green, one blue labeled
Representative
sections are submitted in cassettes labeled
as follows: anterior cervix block 1; posterior cervix block 2; full thickness sections taken
from
the
lesion bisected as follows - one stocks 3 and 4; one cross section in blocks 5 and 6; one cross section in blocks 7 and 8; one
cross section in blocks 9 and 10; one cross section in blocks 11 and 12; lower uterine segment block 13; left parametrium block 14; right parametrium
block 15; left ovary block 16; left fallopian tube and paratubal cyst in block 17; right ovary block 18; right fallopian tube block 19.
Criteria
12/21/12
Yes
No
Diagnosis Discrepancy
Primary Tumol Site Discrepancy
HIPAA Discrepancy
Prior Malignancy History
Dual/Syndironous Pri rary listed
Case is (cl
QUALITIED
Reviewer
12/21/12
