SURGICAL PATHOLOGY:
PROCEDURE DATE: RECEIVED DATE: REPORT DATE:
COPY TO:
Criteria
11/7/12
Yes
No
Diagnosis Discrepancy
Primary Tumor Site Discrepancy
HIPAA Discrepancy
X
Prior Malignancy History
Pre-Op Diagnosis
Dual/Synchronous Primary Noted
Endometrial cancer
DISQUALIFIED
Post-Op Diagnosis
Same as above
Case circle): QUALIFIED our Reviewed: 12/30/11
fort
Clinical History
Nothing indicated
Gross Description:
Four parts
Container labeled
1 - left pelvic lymph nodes" has 8.0
x 5.0 x 2.3 cm of tan-yellow fibroadipose tissue fragments which on
palpation and sectioning reveal several well defined and poorly
defined gray-tan to yellow nodules up to 3.1 cm. On sectioning, the
largest nodules have fleshy gray-pink cut surfaces. The largest
nodule is sectioned and submitted labeled A-B. Individual nodules
are bisected and submitted labeled C-D. Whole smaller nodules are
submitted labeled E-F.
Container labeled
2 - right pelvic lymph nodes" has
8.0 x 6.0 x 2.2 cm of tan-yellow fibroadipose tissue fragments which
on palpation and sectioning reveal a few poorly defined tan-yellow
nodules up to 4.1 cm. On sectioning, the nodules have fleshy and
fatty cut surfaces. The nodules are entirely submitted labeled as
follows: A-C - largest nodule sectioned; D-F - individual nodules
bisected.
Container labeled
3 - uterus, cervix, right tube and
ovary" has a previously laterally opened uterus with attached cervix
and right adnexa. The uterus and cervix together weigh 60 grams and
on reconstruction measures approximately 7.0 x 5.0 x 3.4 cm. The
cervix has a wrinkled gray-tan to brown ectocervical mucosa. The os
is patent. The uterine canal sounds to a depth of approximately
UUID: :B6DB87F4-E88A-4209-92E2-75ADB364FB28
TCGA-AJ-A3NC-01A-PR
Redacted
ICD-0-3
adenocarcinoma, endometrioid, NOS 8380/3
Site: endometrium C54.1
to
1/7/12
6.8 cm. The endocervical canal is lined by trabeculated tan-brown
mucosa. The uterine serosa is smooth and tan-brown. The myometrium
measures up to 1.5 cm and is tan-pink and fibrotic. The endometrial
canal is lined by up to 0.2 cm of focally granular gray-tan to brown
mucosa which extends from across the entire fundus to both lateral
aspects and onto both the anterior and posterior aspect over an area
6.0 x 3.5 cm. This process does not grossly appear to extend into
the myometrium. The small amount of parametrial soft tissue on each
side shows no nodularity or gross lesions. The right fallopian tube
is 5.7 x 0.6 x 0.6 cm and has a focally shaggy serosa with closed
rounded distal end having several fibrous adhesions to the adjacent
ovary. On sectioning, there is a fibrotic wall with a dilated lumen
containing transparent viscid mucus. The right ovary is 4.5 x 3.7 x
3.4 cm and has a lobular gray-tan outer surface. On sectioning,
there is a multiloculated cystic cut surface with thin walls and
smooth inner lining containing straw-colored viscid mucus. Also
received in the same container are three tissue cassettes each
labeled
-16-18." Representative sections are submitted
labeled as follows: A - anterior cervix; B - posterior cervix; C -
lower uterine segment shaved posterior serosa; D-H - anterior
endomyometrium; I-M - posterior endomyometrium; N-O - left lateral
endomyometrium; P-Q - right lateral endomyometrium; R-U - fundic
endomyometrium; V - left parametrium; W - right parametrium; X-CC -
right adnexa.
Container labeled
4 - left tube and ovary" has a
recognizable adnexal complex consisting of a 3.0 x 0.8 x 0.8 cm
portion of apparent fallopian tube with an attached previously
opened collapsed cystic ovary measuring as received 8.5 x 6.8 x 5.5
cm. The portion of fallopian tube has a tan-gray serosa with a thin
gray-tan fibrotic wall and a dilated lumen containing viscid
tan-brown fluid. This appears to be grossly consistent with previous
ligation. The ovary has a gray-tan to pink outer surface. This is
seen to be a previously opened cystic structure with hair-bearing
inner lining containing residual greasy gray-tan to yellow
hair-bearing material. The walls show focal areas of thickening and
calcification. Representative sections are submitted in five
cassettes.
Microscopic Description:
The slides labeled
are examined. See diagnosis.
Final Diagnosis
Left pelvic lymph nodes (regional resection):
Reactive sinus histiocytosis and fatty infiltration, no metastatic
carcinoma identified within
nine lymph nodes (0/9). PAS 4
Right pelvic lymph nodes (regional resection):
Reactive sinus histlocytosis, lymphoid hyperplasia, and fatty
infiltration, no metastatic
carcinoma identified within four lymph nodes (0/4). PAS 4
Uterus (radical hysterectomy):
Tumor characteristics:
Specimen integrity: Intact hysterectomy specimen.
Histologic type: Predominantly endometrioid adenocarcinoma with
focal clear cells and focal
mucinous differentiation (see comment).
Grade: Moderately to poorly differentiated (FIGO grade 2-3).
Location and size: Carcinoma present almost uniformly around the
endometrium involving
greater than 90% of the endometrium grossly noted 6.0 cm in
greatest diameter.
Extent of invasion:
Carcinoma invades myometrium, invades less than half the
thickness of myometrium,
maximal thickness of invasion is 3 mm into a 14 mm thick
myometrium.
Extension of tumor:
Does carcinoma involve endocervix: No (see comment).
Does carcinoma involve lower uterine segment: No.
Does carcinoma involve uterine serosa: No.
Lymphovascular space invasion: Not identified.
Surgical margin status:
Cervix: No carcinoma is identified.
Right parametrium: No carcinoma is identified (see comment).
Left parametrium: No carcinoma is identified. PAS 9
Lymph node status: See above diagnoses.
Right fallopian tube and ovary:
Right fallopian tube:
Tubo-ovarian adhesions, no carcinoma is identified. PAS 4
Right ovary:
Benign multi-cystic ovary with features suggestive of mature
cystic teratoma (see comment).
PAS 8
Left adnexa:
Left fallopian tube:
No carcinoma is identified. PAS 1
Left ovary:
Mature cystic teratoma. PAS 8 SPC-A
pTN stage: pT1aN0
CPT: 88309 x 1, 88307 x 4
Comments
Sections of endometrium demonstrate a predominantly endometrioid
adenocarcinoma with focal clear cells and focal mucinous
differentiation. This is graded as a moderate to poorly
differentiated, FIGO grade 2-3. Sections of cervix and right
parametrium show fragments of carcinoma outside of the plane of
sections of the tumor which are interpreted as "floaters."
The right ovary grossly was multi-cystic. Microscopically, a large
portion of the cyst demonstrate the lining epithelium to be
artifactually denuded. Focally, some residual lining epithelium is
present with focally some mucinous cells and in other areas columnar
epithelial cells. Focally, within the wall is some bone formation
as well as skin adnexal structures although no squamous epithelium
is identified. The overall histologic features are suggestive of a
mature cystic teratoma. No carcinoma is identified. Clinical
correlation and follow up is recommended.
At the request of the undersigned pathologist, these slides have
been additionally reviewed by Dr.
who concurs with the
diagnosis.
This test has been finalized at the
Campus.
<Sign Out Dr. Signature>
