SURGICAL PATHOLOGY:
PROCEDURE DATE:
RECEIVED DATE:
REPORT DATE:
UUID:9A08EA28-EFOB-40CE-B2B4-0A0B0EE1EDA7
COPY TO:
TCGA-AJ-A8CV-01A-PR
Redacted
Pre-Op Diagnosis
Endometrial cancer
Post-Op Diagnosis
Nothing indicated on requisition
Clinical History
Nothing indicated on requisition
Gross Description:
Three parts
Container 1 labeled
- left pelvic lymph nodes." Received in
formalin is a 7.0 x 4.0x2.0 cm aggregate of multiple pieces of
fatty tissue. Sectioning reveals multiple lymph nodes up to 5.0 cm
CUC
ICD0-3
in greatest dimension. All lymph nodes are submitted in cassettes
labeled
as follows: A - two intact lymph nodes, B - one
Adenocaremona,
quadrisected lymph node, C - one trisected lymph node, D - one
sectioned lymph node in toto, E and F - one sectioned lymph node in
NOS 9380/3
toto, G - one sectioned lymph node in toto, H through J - one
path
sectioned lymph node in toto.
Carenoma,
Container 2 labeled
right pelvic lymph nodes." Received
838013
in formalin is an 8.2x5.7x1.7 cm aggregate of multiple pieces of
fatty tissue. Sectioning reveals multiple lymph nodes up to 4.6 cm
in greatest dimension. All lymph nodes are submitted in cassettes
Site Endometrium
labeled
as follows: A - two intact lymph nodes, B - one
(54.)
trisected lymph node, C - one bisected lymph node, D and E - one
sectioned lymph node in toto, F through H - one sectioned lymph node
IN 4/17/14
in toto.
Container 3 labeled
uterus, bilateral tubes, bilateral
ovaries, cervix." Received in formalin is a 79.4 gram, 6.5 x 5.0 x
4.0 cm uterus with attached cervix, attached 8.8 gram right adnexa,
and attached 7.6 gram left adnexa. The ectocervix is surfaced by
pink tan to slightly violaceous mucosa. The uterine serosa is
smooth and tan brown. The endocervical canal is tan and corrugated.
The endometrial cavity is 3.5 cm in width and 3.5 cm in length and
gives rise to a 4.5 x 3.0 x 2.0 cm exophytic friable tan white
tumor. The tumor does not grossly involve the low uterine segment.
On section, the tumor extends approximately 0.7 cm into the
myometrium where the myometrium is 1.7 cm thick.
The right adnexa consists of a 4.5 cm long x 0.3 cm diameter
previously fallopian tube attached to the mesovarium of a 2.4 x 1.2
x 1.1 cm smooth tan white ovary. On section the ovarian stroma is
homogeneously yellow tan. The left adnexa consists of a 4.4 cm long
x 0.5 cm diameter fallopian tube attached to the mesovarium of a 2.3
x 1.0 x 1.0 cm smooth yellow tan ovary. The ovarian stroma is
homogeneously yellow tan. Separate in the container there is a 0.9
x 0.7 x 0.5 cm encapsulated yellow tan nodule. On section the
nodule is centrally ascitic. Representative sections are submitted
for genomic studies in two cassettes labeled
Representative sections of the remaining tissue are submitted in
cassettes labeled
as follows: A - representative anterior
cervix, B - representative posterior cervix, C - representative
anterior lower uterine segment, D - representative posterior lower
uterine segment, E through G - anterior endomyometrium with tumor, H
through J - posterior endomyometrium with tumor, H to include
greatest depth of invasion, K through N - sectioned entire right
parametrium, O and P - sectioned entire left parametrium, Q -
representative right ovary, R - representative right fallopian tube,
S - representative left ovary, T - representative left fallopian
tube, U - trisected separately submitted nodule.
Microscopic Description:
Slides reviewed.
Final Diagnosis
Left pelvic lymph node dissection:
Eight benign regional lymph nodes (0/8).
Right pelvic lymph node dissection:
Six benign regional lymph nodes (0/6).
Hysterectomy:
Carcinoma of endometrium.
Tumor characteristics:
Histologic type: Endometrioid
Grade: Moderately differentiated (G2)
Location: Endometrial cavity as a whole.
Extent of invasion: Invades more than one half of the myometrium.
Maximal thickness of myometrial invasion is 11 mm into a 17 mm
thick myometrium.
Extension of tumor: Does not extend beyond endometrial cavity.
Lymphovascular space invasion: Not identified.
Surgical margin status:
Cervical margin: Negative.
Left parametrial margin: Negative.
Right parametrial margin: Negative.
Lymph node status (utilizing all specimens):
Sites: Bilateral pelvic.
Number of lymph nodes examined: 14
Number of lymph nodes containing metastatic carcinoma: o (0/14)
Other:
Endocervix: No pathologic diagnosis.
Endometrium: Complex hyperplasia with atypia.
Myometrium: Leiomyoma.
Uterine serosa: Focal endometriosis.
Bilateral fallopian tubes and ovaries: No pathologic diagnosis.
Benign appendix epiploica.
Stage: pT1bN0
CPT: 88309, 88307 x2
Comments
This test has been finalized at the
<Sign Out Dr. Signature>
Criteria
In 11/3/13
Yes
NO
Diagnosis Discrepancy
Primary Turner Site Discrepancy
MIDMA Discrepancy
Prior Malignancy History
Dual/Sinchronous Primary Notes
Case is (circle)
QUALIFIED
1
DISQUALIZED
Reviewer Initial
kml
Reviewed
-
