UUID: :4618A1F6-B969-4746-8190-7D856A21C25F
TCGA-AJ-A3NE-01A-PR
Redacted
SURGICAL PATHOLOGY:
PROCEDURE DATE:
RECEIVED DATE:
REPORT DATE:
COPY TO:
Criteria
be 1/7/12
Yes
No
Diagnosis Discrepancy
Pre-Op Diagnosis
Primary Tumor Site Discrepancy
Endometrial cancer
HIPAA Discrepancy
Prior Malignancy History
Post-Op Diagnosis
Dual/Synchronous Primary Hoted
Same
Cases (circle):
4
Clinical History
Nothing indicated on requisition
Reviewer la QUALIFIED Date Reviewed: LISQUALIFIED 12/30/11
Gross Description:
Five parts
Container labeled
1 - left pelvic lymph nodes" are
8.8 x 6.0 x 1.7 cm of tan yellow fibroadipose tissue fragments which
on palpation and sectioning reveal several poorly defined tan yellow
to brown nodules up to 3.2 cm. Sectioning the largest nodule is a
fleshy gray tan cut surface. The largest nodule is sectioned and
submitted labeled "A and B." The remaining nodules are submitted
labeled "C and D."
Container labeled
2 - right pelvic lymph nodes"
are 8.2 x 5.0 x 1.5 cm of tan yellow fibroadipose tissue fragments
which on palpation and sectioning reveal several well defined and
poorly defined tan yellow to brown nodules up to 4.2 cm. The
largest nodule has a fleshy and fatty cut surface. The largest
nodule is sectioned and submitted labeled "A and B." The next
largest nodule is bisected and submitted labeled "C." The whole
smaller nodules are submitted labeled "D and E."
Container labeled
3 - right aortic nodes" are 3.5
x 2.6 x 0.8 cm of tan yellow fibroadipose tissue fragments which on
palpation and sectioning reveal several poorly defined tan yellow to
brown nodules up to 1.1 cm. The nodules are entirely submitted in a
single cassette.
ICD-0-3
adenocarcinome, indometrioid, NOS 8380/3
Site: endometrium C54.1
be
1/7/12
Container labeled
4 - left aortic nodes" are 4.4 x
3.0 x 1.0 cm of tan yellow fibroadipose tissue fragments which on
palpation and sectioning reveal several poorly defined tan yellow to
brown nodules up to 2.2 cm. The largest nodule is bisected and
submitted labeled "A." The whole smaller nodules are submitted
labeled "B."
Container labeled
5 - uterus, cervix, bilateral
tubes and ovaries" is a previously laterally opened uterus with
attached cervix and bilateral adnexa. The uterus and cervix together
weigh 114 grams and on reconstruction measure approximately 9.2 x
6.0 x 5.2 cm. The cervix has a wrinkled gray tan to brown
ectocervical mucosa. The os is patent. The uterine canal sounds to
a depth of approximately 7.9 cm. The endocervical canal is lined by
trabeculated gray tan to brown mucosa with anterior and left lateral
areas of marked granularity and focal friability. The uterine
serosa is smooth and tan brown anteriorly with a few thin gray brown
fibrous adhesions noted posteriorly. The myometrium measures up to
2.7 cm and is tan pink and trabecular. In the anterior wall there
is an intramural 1.7 cm well defined tan white fibrous nodule with a
bulging whorled tan white fibrotic cut surface. The endometrial
canal is virtually completely lined by granular gray tan mucosa
which focally appears to extend up to 0.1 cm into the underlying
myometrium noted predominantly in the anterior aspect. Focal areas
of papilliferous change are identified noted predominantly in the
fundic region. A small amount of parametrial soft tissue on each
side shows no nodularity or gross lesions. Within the specimen
container are 2.0 x 1.6 x 0.5 cm of papilliferous friable gray tan
tissue fragments.
The left fallopian tube is 4.7 x 0.8 x 0.8 cm. The right fallopian
tube is 5.3 x 0.8 x 0.8 cm. Each has a focally shaggy gray tan to
brown serosa with an area of discontinuity grossly consistent with
previous ligation. On sectioning each has a tan wall with pinpoint
lumen. The left ovary is 2.6 x 2.0 x 1.7 cm and has a lobular gray
tan to brown outer surface with a mottled gray tan fibrotic cut
surface having several thin walled cystic structures up to 0.7 cm
containing clear serous fluid. The right ovary is 3.1 x 2.6 x 2.2
cm and has a lobular tan gray to brown outer surface. On sectioning
there is a mottled tan gray fibrotic cut surface with an eccentric
1.2 cm centrally hyalinized appearing corpus luteum. Also received
in the same container are three tissue cassettes each labeled
Representative sections are submitted labeled as follows: A -
anterior cervix; B - posterior cervix; C - lower uterine segment and
shaved posterior serosa; D through H - anterior endomyometrium; I
through N - posterior endomyometrium; o and P - left lateral
endomyometrium; Q and R - right lateral endomyometrium; S through X
- fundic endomyometrium; Y - left parametrium; Z - right
parametrium; AA - separate papilliferous tissue fragments; BB - left
adnexa; CC - right adnexa.
Microscopic Description:
The slides labeled V. Conner are examined. See diagnosis.
Final Diagnosis
Uterus (radical hysterectomy):
Specimen integrity: Intact hysterectomy specimen.
Histologic type: Endometrioid adenocarcinoma (see comment).
Histologic grade: Moderately to poorly differentiated, FIGO grade
II-III.
Tumor size: Approximately 2 cm in greatest diameter (see comment).
Myometrial invasion: Focal invasion of myometrium, less than half
the myometrium, maximal
thickness of invasion is approximately 1 mm into an approximately
24 mm thick
=40%
myometrium.
Involvement of endocervix: No.
Involvement of uterine serosa: No.
Involvement of lower uterine segment: Yes.
Lymphovascular space invasion: Present.
Surgical margin status:
Cervix: No carcinoma is identified.
Left parametrium: Endometriosis and endosalpingiosis, no carcinoma
identified. PAS 4
Right parametrium: Endometriosis, no carcinoma identified. PAS 4
Treatment effect: Unknown.
Other findings:
Adenomyosis, endometriosis, and endosalpingiosis. PAS 4
Leiomyoma. PAS 8
Right adnexa:
Right fallopian tube:
Evidence of prior tubal ligation and endosalpingiosis, no
carcinoma identified. PAS 3, 4
Right ovary:
Endosalpingiosis, no carcinoma identified. PAS 4
Left adnexa:
Left fallopian tube:
Evidence of prior tubal ligation, no carcinoma identified. PAS 3
Left ovary:
Endosalpingiosis, no carcinoma identified. PAS 4
Left pelvic lymph nodes (regional resection):
Three lymph nodes demonstrating glandular inclusions consistent
with endosalpingiosis (see
comment). PAS 4
Reactive sinus histiocytosis, lymphoid hyperplasia, no metastatic
pelvic notes 0/24
carcinoma identified within
14 lymph nodes (0/14). PAS 4
Right pelvic lymph nodes (regional resection):
Reactive sinus histiocytosis and lymphoid hyperplasia, no
aortic node=0/12
metastatic carcinoma Identified
within 10 lymph nodes (0/10). PAS 4
Right aortic tymph node (regional resection):
Glandular inclusion consistent with endosalpingiosis identified
within one (1) lymph node.
Reactive sinus histiocytosis and lymphoid hyperplasia, no
metastatic carcinoma identified
within five lymph nodes (0/5). PAS 4
Left aortic lymph nodes (regional resection):
Reactive sinus histiocytosis and lymphoid hyperplasia, no
metastatic carcinoma identified
within seven lymph nodes (0/7). PAS 4 SPC-A
pTN stage: pT1aN0
CPT: 88309 x 1, 88307 x 4
Comments
Only focally is a small amount of endometrioid adenocarcinoma
present predominantly seen within the separate fragment of
papilliferous soft tissue that measured 2 cm in greatest diameter.
Focally, tumor is present invading into the myometrium and invades
less than half the myometrium and maximal thickness of invasion is 1
mm into an approximately 24 mm thick myometrium. Foci of
endometrioid adenocarcinoma are present with an endothelial lined
lymphovascular space which is consistent with lymphovascular space
invasion. Areas of adenomyosis are present as well as
endosalpingiosis and endometriosis. A leiomyoma is present. Some
bland glandular inclusions are identified within the lymph nodes
which are interpreted as representing areas of endosalpingiosis.
Clinical correlation and follow up is recommended.
At the request of the undersigned pathologist, these slides have
been additionally reviewed by Dr. who concurs with the
diagnosis.
This test has been finalized at the
Campus.
<Sign Out Dr. Signature>
