SURGICAL PATHOLOGY:
PROCEDURE DATE:
RECEIVED DATE:
REPORT DATE:
Criteria
COPY TO:
Yes
No
Diagnosis Discrepancy
Primary Tumor Site Discrepancy
HIPAA Discrepancy
Prior Malignancy History
Dual/Synchronous PrimaryNoted
Case (circle):
QUALIFIED
DISQUALIFIED
cm
Date Reviewed: 10/31/11
Pre-Op Diagnosis
Grade III endometrial cancer
Post-Op Diagnosis
Same as above
Clinical History
Nothing indicated
Gross Description:
Five parts
Container labeled "
1 - uterus, cervix, bilateral
tubes and ovaries" has a previously laterally opened, moderately
distorted uterus with attached cervix and bilateral adnexa. The
uterus and cervix together weigh 75 grams and on reconstruction
measure approximately 7.4 X 5.0 X 3.2 cm. The cervix has a wrinkled
gray-tan ectocervical mucosa. The os is patent. The uterine canal
sounds to a depth of approximately 5.5 cm. The endocervical canal
is lined by trabeculated gray-brown mucosa. The uterine serosa is
smooth and tan-brown. The myometrium measures up to 2.0 cm and is
gray-pink and fibrotic with a few intramural well defined tan-white
fibrous nodules with bulging whorled tan-white fibrotic cut surfaces
measuring up to 0.5 cm. The endometrial canal is lined by less than
0.1 cm of smooth brown mucosa. Noted in the left cornual region,
extending onto the fundus in the posterior aspect, over an area of
approximately 2.2 X 1.5 cm, is a gray-tan slightly lobulated
plaque-like area of discoloration. On sectioning, in the cornual
region this plaque measures focally up to 0.6 cm. This grossly
UUID:
TCGA-AJ-A3EM-01A-PR
Redacted
ICD-0-3
endometrinid, NUS 8380/3
Site: endometrum C54.1
low 10/31/11
extenas into the myometrium WI
it is seen at its nearest point
0.9 cm from the nearest posterior undic serosa. The parametrial
soft tissue on each side shows no nodularity or gross lesion. The
left fallopian tube measures X 1.1 X 1.1 cm and has a smooth
tense outer surface with closed rounded distal end. The wall is
gray-tan and fibrotic with the proximal portion of the tube having a
pinpoint lumen. In the mid and distal half the lumen dilates and
contains gray-tan papilliferous tissue which does not grossly appear
to extend into the wall. There is a small amount of transparent
viscid fluid associated with this region. The left ovary is 2.4
1.8 X 1.0 cm and has a lobular tan-yellow outer surface with a
mottled tan-gray fibrotic cut surface. The right fallopian tube
measures 4.5 X X 1.0 cm and has a smooth gray-tan serosa with a
closed rounded distal end. On sectioning, there is a tan wall with a
pinpoint lumen near the proximal end. In the mid and distal areas
there is gray-tan papilliferous tissue with a small amount of viscid
clear fluid. The right ovary measures 2.2 X 2.0 X 1.4 cm and has a
lobular gray-tan outer surface with a mottled gray-tan fibrotic cut
surface. Also received in the same container are three tissue
cassettes each labeled
Representative sections are
submitted labeled as follows: A - anterior cervix; B - posterior
cervix; C - lower uterine segment shaved posterior serosa; D-H -
anterior endomyometrium; I-M - posterior endomyometrium; N-O - left
lateral endomyometrium; P-Q - right lateral endomyometrium; R-V -
fundic endomyometrium; W - left parametrium; X - right parametrium;
Y - left fallopian tube; Z - left ovary; AA-BB - right fallopian
tube from proximal to distal; CC - right ovary.
Container labeled
2 - right aortic lymph nodes" has
4.0 X 3.1 X 0.9 cm of tan-yellow fibroadipose tissue fragments which
on palpation and sectioning reveal several poorly defined tan-yellow
nodules up to 1.8 cm. On sectioning, the largest nodule has a fleshy
cut surface. The largest nodule is bisected and submitted labeled A.
Remaining nodules are submitted labeled B.
Container labeled
- left common iliac nodes" has
3.1 2.2 X 0.6 cm of tan-yellow fibroadipose tissue fragments which
on palpation and sectioning reveal a few poorly defined tan-yellow
nodules up to 0.7 cm. The nodules are entirely submitted in a single
cassette,
Container labeled
4 - right pelvic lymph nodes" has
8.0 X 4.5 X 2.4 cm of tan-yellow fibroadipose tissue fragments which
on palpation and sectioning reveal two poorly defined tan-yellow
nodules, 3.0 and 4.2 cm. On sectioning, these have fleshy tan-pink
cut surfaces with a large amount of intervening yellow adipose
tissue. The smaller portion is bisected and submitted labeled A-B.
The larger portion is sectioned and submitted labeled C-G.
Container labeled
5 - left pelvic lymph nodes" has
X 2.8 cm of tan-yellow fibroadipose tissue fragments which
on palpation and sectioning reveal four poorly defined tan-yellow
nodules, from 2.5 to 4.6 cm in greatest dimension each. On
sectioning, these have fleshy tan-gray cut surfaces with a large
amount of intervening yellow adipose tissue. The smallest portion is
bisected and submitted labeled A. The next largest portion is
sectioned and submitted labeled B-C. The second largest portion is
sectioned and submitted labeled D-F. The largest portion is
sectioned and submitted labeled G-J.
Microscopic Description:
See diagnosis.
Final Diagnosis
Uterus, tubes, and ovaries, radical hysterectomy:
Tumor characteristics:
Histologic type: Endometrioid carcinoma.
Grade: 3 (high grade).
Location: Endometrial cavity and superficial myometrium.
Malignancy extends up to 5 mm'into an 18 mm thick myometrium.
Extension of tumor: No involvement of endocervical canal or lower
uterine segment is
identified.
Lymphovascular space invasion: Not Identified.
Surgical margin status:
Cervix: Negative.
Left parametrial: Negative.
Right parametrial: Negative.
Lymph node status (specified sites):
See parts 2 through 5.
Number of lymph nodes examined (total): 18.
Number of lymph nodes containing metastatic carcinoma: 0.
Other:
Vagina:
Not resected.
Cervix:
Squamous metaplasia, negative for malignancy.
Endocervix:
No pathologic diagnosis, negative for malignancy.
Endometrium:
Background hyperplasia is present.
Myometrium:
Adenomyosis is present.
Leiomyomata.
Uterine serosa:
Endometriosis, focal, negative for malignancy.
Ovaries:
Endometriosis, focal, left ovary, negative for malignancy.
Fallopian tubes:
Changes consistent with remote bilateral tubal ligation,
negative for malignancy.
pTN stage: pT1b, NO
Lymph nodes, right aortic, excision:
Negative for malignancy, eight nodes.
Lymph nodes, left common iliac, excision:
Negative for malignancy, four nodes.
Lymph nodes, right pelvic, excision:
Negative for malignancy, two nodes.
Lymph nodes, left pelvic, excision:
Negative for malignancy, four nodes. PAS 9
CPT:
Comments
No prior material is identified in our files for review and
comparison. The malignancy would be classified as grade 2 based on
the growth pattern. There is, however, marked nuclear pleomorphism
and a high mitotic rate raising the classification to grade 3.
At the request of the undersigned pathologist, these slides have
been additionally reviewed by D
who concurs with the
diagnosis.
This report has been finalized at the
<Sign Out Dr. Signature
