Sex:
Femala
D.O.B.:
MRN #:
Ref Physn
SPECIMEN INFORMATION
Collected:
Accession #:
Received:
Acct / Reg $
Reported:
SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT
DIAGNOSIS
DIAGNOSIS:
A. Omentum, excision:
Criteria
Malignancy not identified.
Giagnusis Discrepancy
Yes
No
Primary Tumor Site Discrepancy
B. Uterus, bilateral adnexa, hysterectomy with bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy:
HIPAA Discrepancy
Prior Malignancy History
Dual/Synchronous PrimaryNotes
Tumor Characteristics:
Case is (circle):
QUALIFIEU
Reviewer milia
DISQUALIFIED
1. Histologic type: Papillary serous carcinoma.
Date Reviewed:
2. Histologic grade: High-grade.
10/25/11
3. Tumor site: Endometrium.
4. Tumor size: 4.5x20x2.0cm.
definitively extending to it The average thickness measures approximately 1.4 cm.
5. Myometrial invasion: Tumor focally extends throughout the entire myometrial wall focally coming within 0.1 cm of the serosal surface, but not
6. Involvement of cervix: Tumor focally present within endocervical glands as well as cervical stroma.
7. Extent of involvement of other organs: Small focus of tumor is present in one ovary measuring approximately 0.1 cm in maximal dimension.
8. Lymphovascular space invasion: Not definitively seen.
Surgical Margin Status:
1. Margina uninvolved: bilateral parametria, cervix, uterine serosa.
2. Margins involved: no definitive margins are involved.
Lymph Node Status:
See below.
Other:
above. 1. Other significant findings: Bilateral adnexal structures without other significant pathologic abnormality except for the isolated tumor focus stated
2. pTNM stage: pT3aN2 (FIGO: IIIC2).
1es-0-3
C. Left pelvic tymph nodes, excision:
One of nine lymph nodes positive for metastatic carcinoma.
adeno carcinoma papillary serous 8460/3
D. Left periaortic/common lymph nodes, excision:
Site: endometraum C54.1 be
One of eight lymph nodes positive for metastatic carcinoma.
10/25/11
E. Right periaortic lymph node, excision:
One of one lymph node positive for metastatic carcinoma.
F. Right pelvic lymph nodes, excision:
Two of eight lymph nodes positive for metastatic carcinoma.
Electronic Signature:
COMMENTS:
with serous carcinoma of endometrial origin.
Appropriately controlled immunohistochemical stains for p53 and WT-1 performed on block B10 show positivity for p53 and negativity for WT-1, consistent
UUID: 887CB7C6-8685-41EA-A6CB-FC496C311888
TCGA-AJ-A38D-01A-PR
Redacted
INFORMATIO
CLINICAL HISTORY:
Preoperative Diagnosis:
year old female endometrial biopsy with papillary serous cancer.
Postoperative Diagnosis:
Symptoms/Radiologic Findings:
SPECIMENS:
A. Omentum
B. Uterus, cervix, BSO
C. Left pelvic lymph node
D. Left perieortic/common lymph node
E. Right periaortic lymph node
F. Right pelvic lymph node
SPECIMEN DATA
GROSS DESCRIPTION:
The specimen is received in six formalin filled containers labeled with the patient's name
A. Container A is additionally labeled '1' and contains a 28.5 x 18.5 x 1.5 cm yellow-tan finely lobulated fibrofatty soft tissue. The specimen is most
consistent with omentum. On section and palpation, no discrete lesions are identified. Representative sections are submitted in cassettes A1 through 4
labeled
B. Container B is additionally labeled '2' and contains a 55.5 g uterus with attached cervix received with detached bilateral adnexa. The 4.5 cm in length
x 4.5 cm uterine corpus is surfaced by pink-tan serosa. The 3.7 cm in length x 3.5 x 3.5 cm uterine cervix is partially surfaced by pink-tan glistening
ectocervical mucosa and features a central 0.9 cm patent os. The parametrial soft tissues are inked and taken en face. The endocervical canal is yellow-
tan, focally cystic and mucoid with the usual folds. The triangular endometrium is remarkable for a 4.5 x 2.0 X 2.0 cm pink-tan granular lesion that
involves the entire endometrium. Normal appearing endometrium is not identified. On section, this lesion invades 0.5 cm into a 1.2 cm thick pink-tan
focally cystic and fibrous myometrium. No additional myometrial nodules or lesions are identified.
The first fimbriated fallopian tube is received in two pieces and when reconstructed is approximately 3.5 cm in length and ranges from 0.4 to 0.6 cm in
diameter. The attached yellow-tan lobulated ovary is 2.4 x x 0.5 cm. The specimen is bivalved to reveal a yellow-tan fibrous cut surface with no
discrete lesions.
The second fimbriated fallopian tube is received in two pieces that when reconstructed is approximately 4.5 cm in length and ranges from 0.4 to 0.6 cm
in diameter. The attached 2.0 x 1.4 x 0.7 cm yellow-tan lobulated ovary is bivalved to reveal a yellow-tan fibrous cut surface with numerous gray-white
corpora albicantia. Representative sections are submitted in cassettes B1 through 14 labeled
designated as follows: 1) right
parametrium, en face; 2) left parametrium, en face: 3) anterior endoectocervix; 4) posterior enuvectocervix, 5) anterior lower uterine segment; 6)
posterior lower uterine segment: 7 and 8) full thickness anterior endomyometrium; 11) first fallopian tube; 12) first ovary; 13) second fallopian tube; 14)
second ovary.
Additionally, a yellow, green, and blue cassette are submitted for genomics research each labeled:
C. Container c is additionally labeled 'left pelvic lymph node and contains a 6.5 x 4.5 x 2.5 cm aggregate of yellow-tan fibrofatty soft tissue. On
palpation, multiple firm, fatty possible Mvnh nodes are identified ranging from 0.5 up to 3.0 cm in greatest dimension. They are entirely submitted in
cassettes C1 through 7 labeled
designated as follows: C1 and 2) three whole possible lymph nodes in each cassette. C3) one whole
possible bisected lymph node; LA and 5) one whole possible bisected lymph node; C6 and 7) one whole possible bisected lymph node.
D. Container D is additionally labeled 'left periaortic and common' and contains a 5.0 x 4.3 x 1.5 cm aggregate of yellow-tan fibrofatty soft tissue. On
palpation, multiple firm fatty possible lvmnh nodes are identified ranging from 0.5 up to 3.0 cm in greatest dimension. They are entirely submitted in
cassettes D1 through 4 labeled
designated as follows: D1) three whole possible lymph nodes: D2) four whole possible lymph nodes; D3
and 4) one whole possible bisected lymph node.
E. Container E is additionally labeled 'right periaortic lymph node and contains a 4.0x3.0x1.5 cm aggregate of yellow-tan fibrofatty soft tissue. On
palpation, a 3.0 am vellow-tan firm fatty nodule is identified consistent with possible lymph node. It is trisected and entirely submitted in cassettes E1
through 3 labeled
F. Container F is additionally labeled right pelvic lymph node' and contains an 8.0 x 4.8 x 2.5 cm aggregate of yellow-tan fibrofatty soft tissue. On
palpation, multiple firm fatty possible Ivmoh nodes are identified ranging from 0.6 up to 3.2 cm in greatest dimension. They are entirely submitted in
cassettes F1 through 5 labeled
ssignated as follows: F1) three whole possible lymph nodes; F2) two whole possible lymph nodes; F3)
two whole possible bisected lympn node (one inked); F4 and 5) one whole possible bisected lymph node.
