SURGICAL PATHOLOGY:
PROCEDURE DATE:
RECEIVED DATE:
REPORT DATE:
Criteria
Yes
Ne/
COPY TO:
Diagnosis Discrepancy
Primary Tumor Site Discrepancy
KiPAA Discrepancy
Prior Malignancy History
Dual/Synchrongus Primary Noted
Case is (circid)
QUALIFIED
DISQUALITIED
Reviewer Initial Date Reviewed:
Pre-Op Diagnosis
Endometrial cancer
Post-Op Diagnosis
ICD-0-3
Same as above
Clinical History
Carcinoma, indometrioid, NOS 8380/3
Nothing indicated
Gross Description:
Site: Endometrium C54.1
Five parts
Container labeled "
1 - left pelvic lymph nodes" is 5.1
had
x 2.6 x 1.8 cm portion of tan yellow fibroadipose tissue which on
9/3/11
palpation and sectioning reveals five poorly defined tan yellow to
brown nodules from 1.1 to 2.1 cm. On sectioning the larger nodules
have fleshy and fatty cut surfaces. The largest nodule is sectioned
and submitted labeled A-B; remaining nodules bisected and
individually submitted labeled C-F.
Container labeled
2 - left aortic lymph nodes" is 4.8
x
1.5 x 1.0 cm elongated portion of tan yellow fibroadipose tissue
which on palpation and sectioning reveals three poorly defined tan
yellow nodules up to 1.5 cm. On sectioning the larger nodules have
fleshy and fatty cut surfaces. The largest nodules are bisected and
individually submitted labeled A-B; whole smallest nodule submitted
labeled C.
Container labeled "
3 - right pelvic lymph nodes" is
9.0 x 3.5 x 1.8 cm portion of tan yellow fibroadipose tissue which
on palpation and sectioning reveals several poorly defined tan
yellow nodules up to 3.4 cm. On sectioning these have fleshy and
fatty cut surfaces. The largest nodule is sectioned and submitted
labeled A-C; individual nodules bisected and submitted labeled D-F;
whole smaller nodules submitted labeled G.
UUID:53518F98-9E10-4F4D-A3EE-26A83B867D58
TCGA-AJ-A2Q0-01A-PR
Redacted
Container labeled
4 - right aortic lymph nodes" is
4.9 x 3.5 x 1.5 cm tan yellow fibroadipose tissue fragments which on
palpation and sectioning reveals two poorly defined tan yellow
nodules 2.5 cm and 3.8 cm. On sectioning there are fleshy and fatty
cut surfaces. The largest nodule is sectioned and submitted labeled
A-B; smaller nodule bisected and submitted labeled C.
Container labeled
5 - uterus, cervix, bilateral tubes
and bilateral ovaries" is a previously laterally opened moderately
distorted uterus with attached cervix and bilateral adnexa. The
uterus and cervix together weigh 87 grams and on reconstruction
measure approximately 6.9 x 6.4 x 4.7 cm. The cervix has a wrinkled
gray-tan ectocervical mucosa. The os is patent. The uterine canal
sounds to a depth of approximately 5.8 cm. The endocervical canal
is lined by trabeculated tan gray to brown mucosa. The uterine
serosa is smooth and tan-brown. The architecture is distorted by
the presence of a left fundic subserosal nodule 1.6 cm as well as a
left lateral subserosal to intramural nodule 1.8 cm. The lateral
nodule has a bulging whored tan gray fibrotic cut surface while the
fundic nodule has a focally calcified cut surface. The uninvolved
myometrium measures up to 1.9 cm and is tan-pink and fibrotic. The
endometrial canal is lined at the fundus extending to both the
anterior and posterior aspects by a 3.5 x 3.3 x up to 0.9 cm friable
granular gray tan to pink papilliferous plaque like lesion. On
sectioning this has a friable gray pink cut surface and grossly
extends into the myometrium in the right lateral fundic region to a
maximum thickness of 2.4 cm. This is focally noted at its nearest
point 0.3 cm from the right lateral serosa. The small amount of
parametrial soft tissue on each side shows no nodularity or gross
lesions. The left fallopian tube measures 4.1 x 0.5 x 0.5 cm. The
right fallopian tube measures 4.5 x 0.5 x 0.5 cm. Each has a smooth
tan brown serosa with a tan wall and pinpoint lumen. The left ovary
measures 1.5 x 1.0 x 0.8 cm and has a lobular tan outer surface with
a mottled tan gray fibrotic cut surface. The right avary measures
1.6 x 0.9 x 0.7 cm and has a lobular tan outer surface with a
mottled tan gray fibrotic cut surface. Also received in the same
container are 6.2 x 5.0 x 1.8 cm of friable granular papilliferous
gray tan to pink lesional tissue fragments with a small amount of
clotted blood. Also received in the same container are two tissue
cassettes each labeled
Representative sections
are submitted labeled as follows: A - anterior cervix; B - posterior
cervix; C - lower uterine segment and shaved posterior serosa; D -
representative fundic subserosal nodule; E-G - anterior
endomyometrium; H-K - posterior endomyometrium; L-M - left lateral
endomyometrium; N-O - right lateral endomyometrium; P-S - fundic
endomyometrium; T - left parametrium; U - right parametrium; V -
left adnexa; W - right adnexa; X - separate lesional tissue.
Microscopic Description:
Slides reviewed.
Final Diagnosis
Left pelvic lymph node dissection:
Five benign hyperplastic regional lymph nodes (0/5).
Left aortic lymph node dissection:
Three benign hyperplastic regional lymph nodes (0/3).
Right pelvic lymph node dissection:
Six benign hyperplastic regional lymph nodes (0/6).
Right aortic lymph node dissection:
Two benign hyperplastic regional lymph nodes (0/2).
Hysterectomy:
Carcinoma of endometrium.
Tumor characteristics:
Histologic type: Predominantly endometrioid with some mucinous
features.
Histologic grade: High grade (G3).
Location: Endometrial canal in general.
Tumor size: 3.5 x 3.3 x 1.6 cm.
Extent of invasion: Invades more than one half of the myometrium.
Maximal thickness of myometrial invasion is 16 mm into a 19 mm
thick myometrium.
Extension of tumor.
Extent of involvement of other organs: None identified.
Lymphovascular space invasion: Focally identified.
Surgical margin status:
Cervical: Negative.
Left parametrial: Negative.
Right parametrial: Negative.
Lymph node status (utilizing specimens #1,2,3,4.
Sites: Bilateral pelvic, bilateral aortic.
Number of lymph nodes examined: 16.
Number of lymph nodes containing metastatic carcinoma: None
(0/16).
Other:
Cervix-endocervix:
No pathological diagnosis.
Endometrium:
Focal complex hyperplasia with atypia immediately adjacent to
neoplasm.
Myometrium:
Adenomyosis, leiomyomas.
Uterine serosa, bilateral ovaries and fallopian tubes:
No pathological diagnosis.
Other organs or biopsies:
None.
Correlation with intraoperative findings:
None.
Results of additional studies:
None.
pTN stage: pT1bN0 PAS 9 SPC-A
CPT:
Comments
This test has been finalized at the
<Sign Out Dr. Signature>
