SURGICAL PATHOLOGY:
DATE:
RECEIVED DATE:
REPORT DATE:
COPY TO:
Pre-Op Diagnosis
Endometrial cancer
Post-Op Diagnosis
Same as above
Clinical History
Nothing indicated
Gross Description:
Five parts
Container labeled
1 - right pelvic lymph
nodes" has 6.6 x 5.0 x 1.5 cm of tan-yellow fibroadipose tissue
fragments which on palpation and sectioning reveal several poorly
defined tan-yellow nodules up to 3.1 cm. The largest nodules have
grossly fatty cut surfaces. The largest nodule is bisected and
submitted labeled A-B. Next largest nodule is bisected and submitted
labeled C. Whole smaller nodules are submitted labeled D.
Container labeled "
2 - uterus, cervix,
bilateral tubes and ovaries" has a previously laterally opened
moderately distorted uterus with attached cervix and bilateral
adnexa received after tissue harvest for genomic study. The uterus
and cervix together weigh 203 grams and on reconstruction measure
approximately 10.0 x 7.0 x 5.5 cm. The cervix has a wrinkled
gray-pink ectocervical mucosa. The os is patent. The uterine canal
sounds to a depth of approximately 6.8 cm. The endocervical canal
is lined by granular friable gray-tan to pink tissue. The uterine
serosa is smooth and tan-pink. The myometrium measures up to 2.2 cm
and is tan-pink and trabeculated. The entire endometrial canal
extending to the lower uterine segment and posteriorly into the
ectocervical stroma is occupied by a gritty friable granular
gray-tan to pink papilliferous lesion measuring overall
approximately 11.6x5.5 cm. On sectioning, this has a gritty
UUID:89CAF358-187A-499C-9E01-3992A0DEBCED
TCGA-AJ-A30J-01A-PR
Redacted
ICD-0-3
carcinoma endometrioid, NOS 8380/3
Site: endometruin C54.1
be
Criteria
Yes
No
2/2/12
Diagnosis Discrepancy
Primary Tumor Site Discrepancy
HIPAA Discrepancy
x
Prior Malignancy History
x
Dual/Syrchronous PrimaryNoted
X
Case (citcle):
CQUALIFIED
DISQUALIFIED
Reviewer
Kml
tw Date Reviewed 1/31/12
gray-tan fibrotic cut surface. In the posterior ecto to endocervical
region this grossly extends to within 0.1 cm of the outer surface
margin. In the remaining posterior aspect this grossly extends
focally to within 0.1 cm as well. This lesion extends to within 0.1
cm of the fundus as well as to both the left and right lateral
aspects. The small amount of parametrial soft tissue on each side
shows no gross lesions. The left fallopian tube measures 5.0 x 0.5
x 0.5 cm. The right fallopian tube is grossly absent. The left tube
has a tan-pink edematous serosa with areas of underlying liquid
blood. There is an area of discontinuity grossly consistent with
previous ligation. Within the discontinuous region there is a 0.5 x
0.5 X 0.3 cm cylindrical white plastic bead. The left ovary measures
3.1 x 2.2 x 2.0 cm and has a lobular tan-pink outer surface. On
sectioning, there is a mottled tan-pink fibrotic cut surface with
two eccentric cystic structures measuring 1.0 and 1.7 cm. These have
smooth inner linings and contain serosanguineous fluid. The right
ovary measures 3.1 x 1.2 x 1.0 cm and has a lobular tan-pink outer
surface. On sectioning, there is a mottled tan-pink fibrotic cut
surface. Also received in the same container are three tissue
cassettes each labeled "
Representative sections
are submitted labeled as FOHOWS: A - anterior cervix; B - posterior
cervix; C - lower uterine segment; D-F -anterior endomyometrium; G-I
- posterior endomyometrium; J-K - left lateral endomyometrium; L-M -
right lateral endomyometrium; N-P - fundic endomyometrium; Q - left
parametrium; R - right parametrium; S - left adnexa; T - right
ovary.
Container labeled
3 - left pelvic lymph
nodes" has a 7.5 x 6.0 x 1.7 cm aggregate of tan-yellow fibroadipose
tissue fragments which on palpation and sectioning reveal several
poorly defined tan-yellow nodules up to 2.5 cm. On sectioning, the
nodules have fleshy and fatty cut surfaces. The largest nodules are
bisected and individually submitted labeled A-E. Whole smaller
nodules are submitted labeled F.
Container labeled
4 - right aortic lymph
nodes" has 5.0 x 4.1 x 1.1 cm of tan-yellow fibroadipose tissue
fragments which on palpation and sectioning reveal several poorly
defined pink-yellow nodules up to 2.0 cm. The largest nodule has a
fleshy pink-red cut surface. The largest nodule is bisected and
submitted labeled A. Remaining nodules are submitted labeled B.
Container labeled
5 - left aortic lymph
nodes" has 4.0 x 2.4 x 0.9 cm of tan-yellow fibroadipose tissue
fragments which on palpation and sectioning reveal a few poorly
defined pink-yellow nodules up to 0.6 cm. The nodules are entirely
submitted in a single cassette.
Microscopic Description:
See diagnosis.
Final Diagnosis
Lymph nodes, right pelvic, excision:
Reactive hyperplasia; negative for malignancy, six nodes.
Uterus, radical hysterectomy:
Tumor characteristics:
Specimen integrity: Specimen intact.
Histologic type: Endometrioid carcinoma.
Histologic grade: III (poorly differentiated - see comment).
Tumor site: Endometrial cavity, myometrium, lower uterine segment
and endocervix.
Tumor size: 11.6 x 5.5 cm.
Myometrial invasion: Present, extensive; malignancy extends into
the outer one-half of the
myometrium, 0.1 cm from the posterior myometrial serosal surface
(19 mm of invasive into
20 mm thick myometrium).
Involvement of cervix: Present; malignancy extends into posterior
cervical stroma, to within
less than 0.1 cm of inked and cauterized posterior cervical
surgical margin; unequivocal
surgical margin involvement not identified.
Extent of involvement of other organs: No other organ involvement
identified.
Lymphovascular space invasion: Not identified.
Surgical margin status:
Surgical margins uninvolved (see above).
Lymph node status (see parts one, three, four and five):
Total number of lymph nodes received: 25
Total number containing metastatic carcinoma: o
Other:
Ectocervix: Squamous metaplasia.
Myometrium: Focal residual adenomyosis present.
Serosa: No malignancy identified.
Right and left parametrial tissues: No malignancy identified.
Left fallopian) tube: No malignancy identified.
Right fallopian tube: Not identified grossly or microscopically.
Ovaries: Atrophy, bilateral; negative for malignancy.
pTN stage: pT2, NO
Lymph nodes, left pelvic, excision:
Reactive hyperplasia; negative for malignancy, eight nodes.
Lymph nodes, right aortic, excision:
Reactive hyperplasia; negative for malignancy, six nodes.
Lymph nodes, left aortic, excision:
Reactive hyperplasia, negative for malignancy, five nodes. PAS 9
CPT:
Comments
No relevant prior material is identified in our files for review and
comparison. The malignancy is an endometrioid carcinoma with some
minor areas showing a secretory-like appearance. The overall
architecture is that of a grade II malignancy; however, focally,
high grade nuclei are present, resulting In an overall
classification as a grade III malignancy. No convincing papillary
serous component is identified. Correlation with any prior biopsy
material is suggested.
At the request of the undersigned pathologist, these slides have
been additionally reviewed by Dr.
who concurs with the
diagnosis.
This report has been finalized at the
<Sign Out Dr. Signature>
